UNITED NATIONS
E
Economic and Social Council
Distr.
GENERAL
2 February 1999
ENGLISH Original: FRENCH
ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE
INLAND TRANSPORT COMMITTEE
Working Party on the Construction of Vehicles
(One-hundred-and-seventeenth session,
9-12 March 1999, agenda item 6.19)
PROPOSAL FOR DRAFT SUPPLEMENT 2 TO REGULATION No. 97
(Vehicle alarm systems)
Addendum 1
Transmitted by the expert from the International Organization of
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers (OICA)
Note: The text reproduced below was prepared by the expert from OICA in accordance with the decision of GRSG at its seventy-fifth session (TRANS/WP.29/GRSG/54).
GE.99-20252 (E) page
Title of document, amend to read:
“PROPOSAL FOR THE 01 SERIES OF AMENDMENTS TO REGULATION No. 97”
Paragraphs 4.2, 16.2 and 30.2, amend to read:
“... an approval number of which the first two digits (currently 01 for the 01 series of amendments) shall indicate ...”
Paragraph 32.5.1.3, replace “2 minutes” by “5 minutes”.
Insert the following new paragraphs 39 to 39.3:
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
39.1 As from the official date of entry into force of the 01 series of amendments to this Regulation, no Contracting Party shall refuse an application for approval submitted in accordance with this Regulation as amended by the 01 series of amendments.
39.3 Approval of a vehicle type
Paragraph 39 (former), becomes paragraph 40
Annex 5
In the example of approval marks and in the captions below, replace approval number “001234” by “011234”.
Also, in the caption to model A approval mark add the words “as amended by the 01 series of amendments” after “Regulation No. 97”.
The caption to model B should read:
INTRODUCTION . 2
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM MEMBER STATES . 3
Australia . 3
Denmark* . 17
Finland* . 17
Iceland* . 17
Italy . 17
Mexico . 19
Norway . 23
INTRODUCTION
1. At its forty-fourth session, in 1992, the General Assembly adopted resolution 47/33 of 25 November 1992 entitled "Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its forty-fourth session".
2. Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the resolution read as follows:
["The General Assembly,]
Takes note with appreciation of chapter II of the report of the International Law Commission, entitled "Draft Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind", which was devoted to the question of the possible establishment of an international criminal jurisdiction;
"5. Invites States to submit to the Secretary-General, if possible before the forty-fifth session of the International Law Commission, written comments on the report of the Working Group on the question of an international criminal jurisdiction; 1/ "6.
Requests the International Law Commission to continue its work on this question by undertaking the project for the elaboration of a draft statute for an international criminal court as a matter of priority as from its next session, beginning with an examination of the issues identified in the report of the Working Group and in the debate in the Sixth Committee with a view to drafting a statute on the basis of the report of the Working Group, taking into account the views expressed during the debate in the Sixth Committee as well as any written comments received from States, and to submit a progress report to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session;"
3. Pursuant to the General Assembly's request contained in paragraph 5 of the above-mentioned resolution, the Secretary-General addressed a circular letter to Governments dated 1 December 1992 inviting them to submit their written comments, if possible before the forty-fifth session of the International Law Commission.
Supplement No. 10 (A/47/10), annex. 2/ References to the question of an international criminal jurisdiction are also to be found in document A/CN.4/448 and Add.1 reproducing the comments and observations submitted by Governments on the draft Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind adopted on first reading by the Commission at its forty-third session.
AUSTRALIA
[Original: English]
[3 May 1993]
1. Australia provides the following comments on the report of the Working Group of the International Law Commission (ILC) on the question of an international criminal jurisdiction.
The structure of the comments closely follows that of the Working Group report.
2. Australia supported the granting of a mandate to the ILC to prepare a draft statute for an international criminal court.
Australia hopes that its comments assist the ILC in this task.
Australia does reserve its position on the draft statute that is ultimately prepared by the ILC.
GENERAL COMMENTS
3. In its intervention during the debate on this issue in the Sixth Committee on 28 October 1992, Australia assessed the general approach of the Working Group and noted the importance of the following elements of that approach:
- The detachment of the statute of an international criminal court from the Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind;
- The confinement of the jurisdiction of an international criminal court, at least in the first phase of its operation, to individuals and not States;
- The establishment of an essentially voluntary jurisdiction for such a court, which would be concurrent with that of national courts;
- The establishment of such a court, at least in the first phase of its operations, as a facility to be called upon in need, rather than a standing full-time body.
4. Australia wishes to underline the importance of these elements and asks the ILC to give them due weight in its work on a draft statute.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS
Structural and jurisdictional issues
The method of creation of a court
5. Australia agrees with the conclusion of the Working Group expressed in paragraph 437 that an international criminal court should be established under its own statute taking the form of a treaty. English
The composition of a court
6. Australia has already noted the importance of the Working Group's view expressed in paragraph 438 of the report that a court, at least in the first phase of its operations, should not be a full-time body but constituted on each occasion it was required to sit.
This position reflects an understanding of the limited workload that a court would face, at least in its early years of operation, and the costs that would be incurred in establishing and maintaining a court on a full-time basis with a full complement of judges and a supporting administrative structure.
The workload of a court would also clearly be more limited if it exercised concurrent jurisdiction with national courts rather than exclusive jurisdiction.
7. In paragraph 440 of the report, the Working Group rightly points out that judges of a court should be independent and impartial and equipped with suitable qualifications and experience.
Similar requirements are laid down for judges of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in Article 2 of that Court's Statute.
There should also be a requirement (akin to Art. 9 of the ICJ Statute) that the judges chosen to sit on a court should represent the "principal legal systems of the world".
8. In paragraphs 442 and 443 of the report, the Working Group sets out one possible arrangement for nominating judges to serve on a court and constituting it when required.
Although this arrangement has merit, the ILC should canvass other possible mechanisms to ensure that all relevant issues are fully considered.
Such an arrangement should not be cumbersome but built on a simple framework which provides guarantees for the nomination of qualified judges and the speedy convening of a panel of suitable judges to try a given case.
The ways by which a State might accept the jurisdiction of a court
9. Paragraph 444 of the report restates the Working Group's view that a court should not have compulsory jurisdiction.
Australia has noted the importance of this view.
The establishment of a voluntary jurisdiction for a court would require a mechanism by which States could accept this jurisdiction.
As outlined in paragraph 444, a State becoming a party to the Statute would accept "certain administrative obligations".
The acceptance of a court's jurisdiction by a State would be done by separate act.
As noted by the Working Group, this act could be similar to acceptance of the Optional Clause of the ICJ Statute.
10. Any mechanism for accepting the jurisdiction of a court would have to allow States flexibility in nominating the terms upon which they would accept that jurisdiction.
Paragraph 446 of the report suggests various approaches to handling this question.
In drafting the provisions of the statute on jurisdiction, the ILC should precisely define the terms on which a State may accept the jurisdiction of a court.
Such provisions would need to contain a list of specific offences in relation to which a State could accept a court's jurisdiction.
The ILC will also need to bear in mind that many States would no doubt have to reconcile national constitutional requirements with the acceptance of the jurisdiction of a court.
These requirements may cover trial format, trial procedures and procedural safeguards.
11. In paragraph 448 of the report, the Working Group considers the question of access to a court by States which are not party to its statute.
The Working Group favours access to a court being available to States not parties to the statute on an ad hoc basis.
Australia considers this approach should be encouraged as it would enhance acceptance of a court's role.
Article 35 of the ICJ Statute envisages that the Court is to be open on a conditional basis to States which are not party to the Statute.
Appropriate conditions akin to those suggested by the Working Group in paragraph 448 would have to be imposed on States which were not party to a court's statute.
The subject-matter jurisdiction (jurisdiction ratione materiae) of a court
12. In its intervention during debate on this issue in the Sixth Committee at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, Australia noted its general support for the approach of the Working Group in dealing with the subject-matter jurisdiction of a court.
Australia continues to support this as a basic approach which would see a court's jurisdiction based on "specified existing international treaties creating crimes of an international character", including the Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind, subject to its adoption and entry into force.
The treaties themselves would obviously not be picked up in their entirety by the statute.
It would be a matter of selecting the relevant crimes created by the treaties over which a court would exercise jurisdiction.
Such crimes would have to be carefully defined.
13. The creation of such a jurisdiction, however, is not without its difficulties.
The existing treaties, apart from the Genocide Convention (art. VI), which would form the basis of the jurisdiction contain no reference to States parties being given the option to submit cases to a court of the type under discussion.
A mechanism will need to be found which resolves this question.
14. A further difficulty would arise where a party to the statute was not also a party to all the treaties forming the basis of a court's jurisdiction.
This difficulty would be resolved if there was sufficient flexibility for States to accept the jurisdiction of a court only in relation to those treaties to which they were party.
This issue also arises in addressing the question of whether States which have not accepted a court's jurisdiction in relation to offences created by treaties to which they are not party should be able to initiate complaints relating to breaches of those offences.
15. In considering the treatment of offences under the statute, attention should also be given to the relationship between existing treaties and the draft Code of Crimes.
Australia noted in the comments it provided earlier this year on the draft Code of Crimes (see A/CN.4/448) that, as currently drafted, the Code overlaps with and replicates definitions of offences already dealt with under existing treaties.
More particularly, in a number of cases, the Code omits elements of an existing crime or reduces its scope.
If substantive differences between the Code and existing treaties remain unresolved, the subject-matter jurisdiction of a court would not function properly.
The general question of the definition of crimes in the statute is dealt with below from paragraph 31 onwards.
16. In paragraph 450 of the report, the Working Group notes that in relation to some treaties it may be necessary to limit the range of offences forming part of a court's subject-matter jurisdiction, so as to avoid a court being overburdened by less serious offences.
The example given concerned offences under conventions dealing with illegal trafficking in narcotic drugs.
In addressing this issue in its intervention in the Sixth Committee last year, Australia suggested that a court should have a sufficiently flexible discretion in determining whether to hear a particular case.
The issue would also arise at the time when a State elected to accept the jurisdiction of a court for particular offences.
To provide this certainty, offences listed in the statute would need to specify clearly the degree of seriousness attached to them (thus justifying their coming within a court's jurisdiction).
17. Australia accepts the view of the Working Group expressed in paragraph 451 of the report that, at the first phase of the establishment of a court, its jurisdiction should be limited to those crimes defined by existing treaties and should not be extended to crimes against general international law which have not been "incorporated in or defined by treaties in force".
The personal jurisdiction (jurisdiction ratione personae) of a court
18. The creation of the personal jurisdiction of a court is a complex task, as the Working Group acknowledges in its report.
It is a matter that requires detailed consideration.
19. An initial hurdle is the diversity of bases for personal jurisdiction to be found in the domestic criminal law regimes of States.
Those States intending to become parties to the statute would no doubt wish to reconcile to the greatest possible extent the personal jurisdiction of a court with the equivalent jurisdiction in their domestic criminal law.
20. A further hurdle to be overcome is the definition of the relationship between a court's personal jurisdiction and the jurisdiction bestowed on States which are parties to existing treaties to deal with persons who have committed offences created by those treaties.
This is a further aspect of the broader task of settling the relationship between the Statute and existing treaties.
21. Australia notes that the concept of "ceded jurisdiction" advanced in paragraph 456 of the Working Group's report offers only a partial solution to resolving possible conflicts between a State's jurisdiction under an existing treaty and its acceptance of a court's jurisdiction.
As the Working Group notes in paragraph 456, the device of "ceded jurisdiction" would not be effective where a large number of States have a jurisdictional claim under a treaty which establishes a universal jurisdiction over a particular crime.
This case would be further complicated where some States claiming jurisdiction were not parties to the statute of a court.
Such States might well consider that a State which ceded jurisdiction to an international criminal court rather than making the offender available to one of them for trial was in breach of its treaty obligations to them.
22. In paragraph 458, the Working Group considers the position of the national State in relation to the personal jurisdiction of a court.
Australia does not consider as a matter of principle that the consent of the national State should be necessary in every case before a court could exercise its jurisdiction to hear a case.
Australia believes there is merit in the alternative proposal put by the Working Group in paragraph 458 that a national State should only be able to prevent a court from exercising its jurisdiction when it is prepared to prosecute the offender before its own courts.
This approach presupposes that a national State could prosecute an accused person under its domestic law.
Where it could not, a national State should not be allowed to prevent an accused from being tried before an international court.
23. In determining the role of the national State, the ILC will have to give careful consideration to the treatment of dual nationals.
There would be potential for conflicts to arise as to the handling of a dual national between the State of residence which had granted that person citizenship and the State of prior residence which still regarded the person as holding its citizenship.
The case could also arise where a person was born in a State and accordingly acquired its citizenship but due to the citizenship of his or her parents or grandparents was regarded by another State as also holding its citizenship.
The rights of respective States in such cases would need to be determined.
24. Australia believes that finding a solution to the problems highlighted by the Working Group in its consideration of the personal jurisdiction of a court represents one of the greatest challenges in the drafting of the statute.
Any solution will need to allow parties to the statute to take account of the jurisdictional claims of other States.
The relationship between a court and the Code of Crimes
25. Australia supports the use of separate instruments to embody the statute of a court and the Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind.
The arguments in favour of this approach are cogently set out in the Working Group's report.
Possible arrangements for the administration of a court
26. The administrative arrangements for a court will be dictated by its structure, location and workload.
If, as has been suggested, a court would not be constituted as a full-time body, at least in the first phase of its operation, there would be a reduced administrative burden which would, in turn, require fewer staff and resources than would be needed to support a full-time body.
27. In paragraph 470 of the report, the Working Group touches briefly on the question of where a court should sit and expresses the view that, where possible, a court should sit in the State where an offence was committed.
Australia notes that, if a court is intended to provide States parties to the statute with a forum which can deal with cases at arm's length and remove potential problems from trials, then such States may well be reluctant to have a court sit in their territory.
28. The Working Group has outlined some of the main issues which would arise in the administration of a court.
The bulk of these issues do not require detailed consideration at this time.
Some attention should, however, be paid to the nature of a court's relationship with the United Nations.
An international criminal trial mechanism other than a court
29. Australia notes the useful exposition in the Working Group's report of the arguments in favour of creating such a mechanism.
Australia, however, agrees with the view of the majority of the Working Group expressed in paragraph 485 of the report that these alternative mechanisms do not address the serious concerns which are at the heart of calls for an international criminal jurisdiction.
Applicable law and due process
30. Consideration of the questions of applicable law and due process will require due attention to be paid to ensuring that the resulting provisions of the statute accord with the relevant principles of human rights instruments and United Nations standards in the field of criminal justice.
The applicable law
The definition of crimes
31. Aspects of the question of the subject-matter jurisdiction of a court have been addressed above in paragraphs 12 to 17.
32. As the Working Group notes in paragraph 493 of the report, article 15 (1) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) embodies the principle of nullem crimen sine lege.
Article 15 (1) requires that no one shall be held guilty of any criminal offence under national or international law unless that conduct constituted an offence at the time it was committed.
The requirement for legal certainty and clarity in the definition of criminal offences, including defences and penalties, is fundamental to legality in penal matters.
Australia supports the Working Group's commitment to upholding this fundamental rule of criminal law.
33. To observe the requirements of article 15 (1), the Working Group argues in paragraph 493 that the jurisdiction of an international criminal court should be confined to specified crimes of an international character defined by treaties in force.
Australia's support for this basic approach was reiterated in paragraph 12 above.
It is of the greatest importance that the elements of the crimes selected be carefully defined so that the prosecutor is required to prove that the conduct of an accused person encompasses the elements of a given crime.
34. Australia believes that, if the jurisdiction of a court is to include international crimes provided for in existing multilateral conventions, the following issues will need to be dealt with:
(a) The inadequate definition of international crimes in existing conventions (including the lack of reference to defences, exculpatory factors and penalties);
(b) The relationship between the draft Code of Crimes and the existing conventions;
(c) Typology of offences - determining which offences are the most serious and, therefore, should fall within a court's jurisdiction;
(d) How the Statute would confer jurisdiction over serious crimes with an international character.
(a) Specificity
35. Whilst existing international conventions are the most reliable source of international law from which to identify specific penal norms, existing treaties create "criminal offences" in a number of different ways.
36. Some conventions proscribe the conduct and impose binding obligations on States to criminalize and punish that conduct at a national level; others refer more generally to an issue of international concern and create obligations to take measures deemed appropriate by respective States; and some simply create a duty to punish or extradite an alleged offender or cooperate in the prosecution and punishment of certain conduct.
37. Consideration will need to be given as to how specific offences which constitute a serious crime of an international character are to be deduced from the wide range of penal norms created by existing conventions.
The elements of the criteria by which certain conduct defined in existing conventions would come within the jurisdiction of a court will need to be identified.
38. In general, it is Australian legal practice at both a federal and state level to specifically identify the constituent elements of a criminal offence, as well as defences, exculpatory factors and penalties.
Australia is of the view that, despite reliance on existing conventions which define penal norms, the vagueness which characterizes some provisions has the potential to create difficulties in meeting the requirements of article 15 (1) of the ICCPR.
(b) Relationship between the draft Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind and existing multilateral conventions
39. As noted above in paragraph 15, Australia expressed concern in its comments on the draft Code of Crimes that the Code overlaps and replicates definitions of offences already dealt with under other multilateral conventions, as well as in some cases omitting elements of existing crimes or reducing their scope.
40. If a Court is to derive jurisdiction from multilateral conventions other than the Code, the relationship between these conventions and the Code must be clarified.
(c) Typology of offences
41. Australia agrees with the Working Group's recommendation that an international criminal court should be confined to dealing with crimes which are genuinely of an international character.
42. The question arises as to what criteria should be used to determine which offences are to be regarded as:
(i) Of a genuinely international character; and
(ii) Serious enough to warrant inclusion in the jurisdiction of a court.
43. Is the identification of a crime as "genuinely of an international character" sufficient for inclusion?
44. Should jurisdiction ultimately depend on the gravity of the offence committed?
Some crimes, such as terrorism, must be regarded as inherently serious.
45. Australia is of the view that these questions need clarification to ensure that objective criteria are relied upon in determining which offences should be within a court's jurisdiction.
46. Australia also notes that there are variations between treaties establishing international crimes in their treatment of the definition of such crimes.
These variations can make it difficult to attribute a particular weight or indication as to the seriousness of an offence based on the way in which that conduct is defined in a given instrument.
(d) Provision conferring jurisdiction
47. The question of specificity overlaps with the question of how the statute is to confer jurisdiction on a court.
The statute will require a provision or provisions which confer jurisdiction over international crimes.
Such a provision or provisions will have an important role to play in ensuring that the statute meets the requirements of article 15 (1) of the ICCPR.
The general rules of criminal law
48. In paragraph 495 of the report, the Working Group notes that most treaties are silent about defences and extenuating circumstances and that no rules of international criminal law on these matters have evolved.
In paragraph 496, the Working Group suggests that a court could have recourse to national law.
As the Working Group notes, however, national law is in principle only a question of fact at the international level.
Two options for dealing with this problem are explored.
The first is to refer directly to the application of domestic law where appropriate.
The second is to require dual criminality (by residence or place where the act was carried out) and thereby refer to national law indirectly.
49. Australia appreciates that the main concern of the Working Group was to identify sources of applicable law.
If the jurisdiction of a court is to run concurrently with that of national courts (as opposed to exclusively), there is a certain preliminary logic in filling the gaps of international criminal law by recourse to domestic law.
Australia believes, however, that on balance this approach will inevitably lead to inconsistencies in treatment across cases and thus create more problems than it solves.
Defences and mitigating circumstances available will depend on the nationality and/or the place where a crime is committed.
Such inconsistency is not desirable and may undermine the legitimacy of a court.
The application of the domestic laws of different countries from case to case would also impose a major burden on the judges of a court who could not be expected to have a detailed knowledge of all such laws.
Applicable procedure
50. Australia agrees with the view of the Working Group expressed in paragraph 500 of the report that the statute of a court or rules thereunder should specify to the greatest extent possible the procedural rules for trials.
The Working Group also indicates that it may be necessary for a court to regulate its own procedure in cases not covered by the statute or rules, by drawing on the principles common to the codes of procedure of the States parties.
51. Whilst Australia agrees that the principle of nullem crimen sine lege does not prevent this course of action because that principle is concerned with substantive as opposed to procedural law, the application of different procedural rules again raises the issue of inconsistency.
52. To overcome the potential problem of inconsistency, a unified set of rules would need to be applied whatever the national origin of the accused.
Questions of procedure and, in particular, rules of evidence are not just technical matters but (as the United Kingdom delegation pointed out in its intervention on this subject in the Sixth Committee at the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly) are central to ensuring a fair trial.
These issues vary across legal systems and in Australia's opinion require detailed analysis.
The penalties to be imposed
53. Australia notes that few conventions define penalties.
In paragraph 502 of the report, the Working Group suggested that the statute will need a penalties provision or a court would have to base the penalty on national law or on "principles common to all nations".
As stated in paragraph 32 above, Australia believes that the starting-point in considering the question of penalties must be article 15 (1) of the ICCPR which embodies the principle of nulla poena sine lege.
This requires "clarity and certainty" in penalty provisions.
Australia agrees with the view of the Working Group that recourse to national law or "principles common to all nations" may well not meet the requirements of clarity and certainty.
It would, therefore, appear necessary for penalty provisions to be developed for the statute.
54. The Working Group recommended the inclusion of a residual provision in the statute to deal with penalties in the event that no penalty is specified in a treaty or if a specified penalty fell outside the jurisdiction of an international court.
Australia is also of the opinion that the inclusion of a residual penalty provision which was not sufficiently detailed would not necessarily cure the problem and discharge the obligation under article 15 (1) of the ICCPR.
If, however, the statute contains penalty provisions, no residual provision would be required.
Ensuring due process
55. In paragraph 503 of the report, the Working Group refers to article 14 of the ICCPR as the primary source of international law on the question of due process without further elaboration.
Australia believes, however, that there are a number of issues which need consideration.
(a) Review/Appeal
56. Article 14 (5) provides that everyone convicted of a crime shall have the right to have his conviction and sentence reviewed by a higher tribunal according to law.
This suggests that in the statute of a court there would need to be provision for the review of conviction and sentence by an appellate tribunal, e.g., a full bench of a court.
The appellate bench should have the discretion to grant or refuse leave to appeal.
(b) Trial by jury
57. As in other common-law countries, trial by jury is a fundamental element of Australia's legal system.
Section 80 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia guarantees a right for a person charged with an indictable offence under any law of the Commonwealth to be tried by a jury.
Australia is not advocating that the statute make provision for trial by jury.
It wishes, however, to draw to the attention of the ILC the possible constitutional difficulties Australia and other countries may need to address if they are to accept the jurisdiction of an international court.
58. The problem is highlighted where international instruments create a binding obligation on States parties to criminalize certain conduct under domestic law as a serious (indictable) offence.
For example, article 2 of the 1970 Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft requires each State party to make the offence "punishable by severe penalties".
The Crimes (Aviation) Act 1991 implements Australia's obligations under the hijacking conventions.
Section 13 of the Act defines hijacking, within the meaning of the Hague Convention, as an indictable offence.
A person charged with that offence, therefore, would have the right to trial by jury.
Prosecution and related matters
The system of prosecution
59. In paragraph 509 of the report, the Working Group recommends an ad hoc independent prosecutorial system.
Australia agrees that an independent prosecutorial system is preferable to complainant States conducting the prosecution.
Ensuring independence and impartiality in the prosecutorial system is an essential underpinning to the credibility and legitimacy of a court.
60. The Working Group's suggestion that a court appoint the prosecutor after consultation with the States concerned is sensible in that it would preserve the independence of the prosecutorial system while giving the States concerned an opportunity to be involved.
It will be necessary, however, to precisely identify which States parties should be involved in the process of consultation with a court.
The exact standing of the States parties in the process of selection and appointment of the prosecutor would have to be made clear.
The initiation of a case
61. In paragraph 512 of the report, the Working Group suggests that adopting the system of appointing an independent prosecutor would obviate the need for a preliminary hearing to test the evidence as a court could dismiss "frivolous or unsubstantiated charges".
An additional consideration is that preliminary hearings before a court could well be regarded as unnecessarily time-consuming and expensive.
62. Australia believes that the role, function and duties of a prosecutor should be regulated.
Questions of ethics; a prosecutor's duty to a court; and obligations towards the defence are the types of issues that need to be addressed.
63. The exercise of prosecutorial discretion and the criteria for prosecution decisions also need to be regulated.
64. Australia agrees with the Working Group's suggestion made in paragraph 511 that there should be scope for review of a prosecutor's decision not to prosecute.
65. In the absence of a permanent independent prosecutorial office, a case could only be brought before a court on complaint from a State party or the Security Council.
Australia agrees with the view of the Working Group expressed in paragraph 514 that the power of complaint should extend to any State party which has accepted the jurisdiction of a court with respect to the offence in question.
A difficulty would arise where a State party which wished to initiate a complaint in relation to a number of offences had not accepted the jurisdiction of a court in relation to all those offences.
This situation will need to be addressed.
Bringing defendants before a court
66. The creation of mechanisms to bring defendants befort a court presents many difficult questions, which must be resolved if a court is to operate effectively.
The Working Group has explored a number of these questions in its report.
The differing constitutional requirements of States will be one of the major hurdles to be overcome.
67. Australia agrees with the view of the Working Group expressed in paragraph 525 of the report that the statute of a court would have to establish minimum requirements for the transfer of alleged offenders, which would have to be observed by States parties.
In drafting these requirements, the Working Group should draw upon existing extradition arrangements between States.
The use of these arrangements as a foundation should result in a set of draft provisions that are more recognizable to States.
Conceptual problems, however, may arise over the need for an alleged offender to be extradited to a court rather than a State.
68. In paragraph 527, the Working Group deals with what it would regard as some of the basic elements of a request for transfer, including the existence of evidence which would have to be "prima facie sufficient to justify putting the accused on trial".
Australia believes there would be difficulties in this approach.
The reference to prima facie evidence would mean different things to different States.
Moreover, it is not a universal standard in extradition treaties, many of which adopt a "no evidence" approach whereby the requesting State is only required to provide a statment of the acts or omissions which are alleged against the person sought to the requesting State.
69. As well as considering how an accused person should be brought before a court, Australia believes that attention should also be given to the conditions in which accused persons would be held prior to trial.
In this regard, the Body of Principles for the Protection of All Persons under Any Form of Detention or Imprisonment should be used as the basic standard.
70. To the extent that offenders may be juveniles, the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Administration of Juvenile Justice and articles 37 and 40 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be used as the minimum standard.
International judicial assistance in relation to proceedings before a court
71. Paragraphs 528 to 545 of the report usefully explore the issues relating to assistance from States in support of the prosecution of alleged offenders before an international court.
Such assistance could well be crucial to the successful prosecution of alleged offenders.
Assistance would no doubt be required from a number of countries in complex cases.
72. In paragraph 528, the Working Group notes that assistance would be "'one-way' assistance to the court rather than reciprocal assistance".
The Working Group is right to point out that assistance would be "one-way".
The question arises, however, as to whether such assistance should be directed to a court.
Where mutual assistance agreements and arrangements are established between States, the purpose of assistance sought is for the most part directed towards preparation of the prosecution's case against an alleged offender.
Requests for assistance, therefore, are generated by the prosecuting authorities of a requesting State.
By the same token, it would be the independent prosecutor who would most likely need to call for the assistance of States in the preparation of cases to be brought before a court.
A court which is to hear a case should not be involved nor seem to be involved in the preparation of the prosecution's case.
To maintain this separation, assistance from States should be provided directly to the prosecutor.
73. Consideration will also need to be given as to what assistance should be provided to the legal representatives of an alleged offender to ensure that they can prepare a proper defence.
The question of financial assistance to defendants unable to fund their defence also needs to be considered.
The lack of financial means in such cases could deny a defendant proper representation.
The minimum guarantees in relation to a person's right to legal assistance are set down in article 14.3 (d) of the ICCPR.
74. In paragraph 531, the Working Group suggests there are three options in relation to international judicial assistance.
After assessing these options, the Working Group suggests that the best option for assistance, at least in the first phase of a court's operation, would be a general provision in the statute supplemented by a non-exclusive list of the types of assistance which may be sought from States parties.
The possibility of a mutual assistance treaty between States parties could then be addressed at a later time.
Australia accepts the reasoning behind this assessment.
It would stress, however, the fundamental requirement of establishing an effective assistance regime if successful prosecutions are to take place.
Implementation of sentences
75. Australia regards the implementation of sentences to be one of the most difficult questions to be addressed.
There are a number of issues to be taken into consideration.
(a) Humanitarian considerations
76. First, a term of imprisonment should not be served under conditions less favourable than those provided in the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners.
77. Secondly, even where the imprisonment of an offender is implemented in a State which complies with those standards, the differences in language, climate and culture may still contribute to difficult conditions of imprisonment.
(b) States
78. There needs to be flexibility in determining which State is to take responsibility for carrying out the sentence.
The extent of this responsibility will need to be established, including such matters as the cost of imprisonment.
(c) Transfer of prisoner to national State
79. A number of countries have concluded mutual repatriation agreements in relation to citizens of one party convicted and sentenced in the courts of the other.
Australia suggests that consideration be given to including a provision in the draft statute allowing the national State of a convicted offender to implement the sentence, if it so wishes.
There are two qualifications to that view.
First, a court should be satisfied that the State has a facility which meets the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners.
Secondly, there needs to be consideration given to whether the consent of the prisoner should be a prerequisite to granting custody to the national State.
80. If transfer of prisoners is to be permitted, there need to be provisions dealing with proceedings to determine applications for transfers; lawful custody of a prisoner in transit; transfer in the custody of an escort; and so on.
81. Guidance on the handling of the transfer of prisoners might be obtained from the Model Agreement on the Transfer of Prisoners and the Model Treaty on the Transfer of Supervision of Offenders Conditionally Sentenced or Conditionally Released.
Review of sentences
82. Australia agrees with the view of the Working Group expressed in paragraph 546 of the report that consideration should be given to providing for applications to vary sentences.
A system of parole, reductions and remissions would need to be considered.
Relationship of a court to the existing extradition system
83. In paragraph 552 of the report, the Working Group correctly raises the issue of the relationship between treaties which adopt the aut dedere aut judicare approach and the jurisdiction of an international court.
84. It is possible that a State party to the statute which elects to use the jurisdiction of an international court may be regarded as in breach of its obligation to prosecute under another treaty where a State to whom extradition has been refused under that treaty does not recognize the jurisdiction of an international court.
85. Australia supports the suggestion in paragraph 553 that the system for handing over accused persons be complementary to the existing prosecute-or-extradite regime.
To achieve maximum flexibility and facilitate the widest possible support for a court, States parties which have accepted the jurisdiction of the court in respect of a given offence should have an option to surrender to an international court as a third alternative.
Imposing an obligation to hand over an accused person for trial on States that are willing to accept the jurisdiction of a court may deter some States from becoming parties to the statute.
86. In the light of the particular problems arising from the existence of entirely separate treaty regimes, Australia believes that the issue of multiple requests for the extradition of an alleged offender being received by a State party to the statute needs detailed consideration.
DENMARK
(See Norway)
FINLAND
ICELAND
ITALY
1. In the opinion of the Italian Government, the court should have general jurisdiction and be universal in character.
In fact, as in any domestic legal system the criminal jurisdiction would not be credible if it was not made applicable to all citizens; also, the jurisdiction of an international court would lose credibility if its application differed in each region or with regard to other types of aggregations.
Therefore, Italy is not in favour of the establishment of various regional tribunals, which would not be apt to guarantee the observance of the fundamental principle of equality in the treatment of the accused persons within the proceedings.
2. As for the formation of the judgement organ, due account should be taken, in each case, of the characteristics of the crimes to be judged, in order to ensure that the specific circumstances associated with the facts that are relevant for the proceedings are better understood.
Therefore, the judgement organ should include persons who are in the position to understand and evaluate such characteristics.
3. The convention establishing the court should grant all States (including, as the case may be, also non-contracting States) the right to designate persons having the qualifications of competence and impartiality that are required for the participation in the judgement organs appointed for the various cases to be examined.
Moreover, the general assembly of the designated judges (or the assembly of the contracting States) should elect the President of the court and the bureau, who will appoint the judgement organ by selecting the names from the general list prepared in accordance with the aforementioned principles and bearing in mind the model provided by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) Stockholm Convention on conciliation and arbitration.
At the same time, the seat of the judicial body must be located in a place which gives the most ample guarantees of independence and freedom of judgement.
Such location could also be different from the official seat of the court, which could be better established in one of the seats of the United Nations, in order to facilitate as much as possible the activity of the new institution in relation to the rules on privileges and immunities.
4. The statute of the court should be independent from the Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind, whose provisions may in fact include crimes that are not subject to the jurisdiction of the international court.
The Code of Crimes must certainly be defined in the most appropriate form (either a convention or another type of instrument) and, once defined, will provide substantial guidance for the court.
But the statute of the court must remain, none the less, independent from the Code.
5. The structure of the court must include, first of all, a prosecuting authority competent for instructing each case on the basis of the evidence collected following the "notitiae criminis" or the elements that any person may give to the court; secondly, an organ for the decision of the case; and, thirdly, an organ for the appeal.
6. On the jurisdiction of the court, it is the view of the Italian Government that such jurisdiction must be extended to all crimes listed by the Conventions having a universal character. For example, one may recall the war crimes against the peace or mankind considered by the Geneva Conventions and Protocols, the Genocide Convention, the Conventions of the United Nations and of the specialized agencies against terrorism, the Convention on the special protection of diplomats, the Convention on the taking of hostages, etc.
The list should remain open in order to allow reference to other conventions whose acceptance becomes gradually more universal.
When doubts arise in this respect, the court should be authorized to issue a "preliminary ruling" which could be linked to the point of the acceptance of jurisdiction.
In any event, the intervention of the Security Council should be excluded.
That of aggression is a different case.
Here it would be impossible to preclude the intervention of the Security Council aimed at establishing whether or not an aggression took place in a given situation.
But, once such a decision is taken, the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court must be kept free from any political influence.
7. The jurisdiction of the court must concern the individuals.
The fact that an individual is vested with the quality of organ of a State must be declared irrelevant and it must be stated that the rules on immunities do not apply in this case.
On the contrary, the State as such must not be subject to the jurisdiction of the court.
It could be acceptable that the jurisdiction of the court ratione loci (i.e., relating to the events which had occurred within the territory of a State) is made the object of a possible declaration of acceptance.
Conversely, no limits could be admitted as regards the jurisdiction rationae personarum or ratione materiae, except for those provided for by the convention establishing the court.
Furthermore, one may also accept that the jurisdiction of the court concurs with the national jurisdiction, if the latter is in fact exercised.
However, a certain prejudice in favour of the court's jurisdiction should result from the rules of the constituent convention.
The faculty must also be granted to the Security Council to disqualify a national jurisdiction, even if only temporarily, whenever it is deemed that such jurisdiction does not possess the requisites of impartiality universally considered necessary for the conduct of the proceedings.
8. All the provisions internationally recognized and concerning the inapplicability of causes of exclusion of criminal responsibility such as the superior's order, the lack of knowledge of the act by the subordinate, etc., must be reproduced in the statute.
To this end, it is suggested that, in drafting the statute of the court, the content of part I of the draft Code of Crimes, which considers the general principles of criminal responsibility and punishment, is largely used as a model.
9. On the question of trials in absentia, Italy has some doubts on the need to admit these types of proceedings.
In fact, while many arguments can be adduced both in favour of and against the admissibility of trials in absentia, Italy tends to share the view that their exclusion is more consistent with the idea of a credible (and not only declamatory) justice.
10. The statute of the court must also accurately specify, on the basis of the existing rules of international law, the procedural guarantees provided in favour of the accused persons.
11. Finally, the court must impose penalties and determine where its sentences will be executed.
At the same time, if the court is given the authority to decide on the indemnification of the victims of crimes and the right to be indemnified is recognized by the court to a victim, different mechanisms (resulting, for example, from the establishment of special funds) could also come into play to resolve issues such as the amount of compensation, the identification of the debtor and the implementation of the court's decision.
12. The execution of the sentences of the court must take place under the control of the United Nations in order to prevent the granting of undue amnesties or pardons.
MEXICO
[Original: Spanish]
[5 May 1993]
The draft under consideration constitutes a distinctly novel initiative.
The international community does not yet have experience in the establishment of permanent international criminal courts.
The only existing precedents, the Tokyo and Nürnberg Tribunals, were the product of special circumstances having been created by Powers which had emerged victorious from armed conflicts of great magnitude; they cannot, therefore, serve as a precedent for a notion such as the one with which we are now concerned.
In the light of recent experience with regard to the establishment of a war crimes tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and the role which the United Nations plays in the maintenance of international peace and security, some countries have proposed the establishment of an international criminal court within the framework of, and closely linked to, the Organization.
The absence of provisions in the Charter of the United Nations regarding the establishment of bodies of this type, and the fact that the Organization is based on the principles of the legal equality of States, the self-determination of peoples and non-intervention in the internal affairs of States, prompts us to suggest that the creation of an international criminal court is feasible only with the express consent of States, as embodied in an international treaty, and only to the extent to which States are willing to be bound by its provisions.
Until now, it has been an internationally accepted general rule that the criminal courts of States are the normal and natural bodies with jurisdiction to try individuals who commit crimes.
The rendering and administration of justice within its territory is a basic function of a State and an obligation from which it cannot be excused.
Transferring that obligation to a supranational body may not only have direct effects in the area of territorial sovereignty, but may also conflict with the constitutional basis of some States.
The tremendous differences that exist among the various penal systems constitute a further obstacle to the notion of an international jurisdiction.
Not all systems agree, for example, on such concepts as capacity, penalties, legality, and so on, as is clear from the discussions held in the various forums in which the notion has been raised.
In its report (A/47/10, annex), the Working Group on the question of an international criminal jurisdiction, recognizing the obstacles confronting an initiative of such magnitude, has proposed the establishment, by a Statute in the form of a treaty, of an ad hoc mechanism, having optional jurisdiction, in the first instance only, to be exercised, in the first phase of its operations, only over private persons (without prejudging State responsibility, when appropriate).
Despite the flexibility of the mechanism proposed by the Working Group, the close link that exists between the proposed international criminal court and the draft Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind - which, if adopted, will be applied and interpreted by that court - adds a number of difficulties to those that already exist; it requires the study of such questions as the principles of non-retroactivity and of legality of the crime, penalties, prescription of the public right of action, and so on, which in the terms proposed, conflict in almost every case with the principles on which the various penal systems in the world are based.
For example, the draft Code seeks to establish the non-applicability of statutory limitations to international crimes, whereas the majority of national codes have so far provided for such limitations; it also envisages referring to other bodies of law in connection with such sensitive issues as penalties, when, in fact, penalties constitute an essential element of these types of norms.
Furthermore, some questions which play an important role in the decision to establish an international criminal court - questions relating to the establishment of an international prison system which can guarantee the implementation of the penalties imposed by the court or a similar mechanism; verification of the implementation of such penalties by the judicial body which imposes them; the handing over of alleged perpetrators of international crimes by the States which have custody of them; and the establishment of a prosecutorial organ responsible for instituting criminal proceedings - have yet to be clarified.
In the specific case of Mexico, acceptance of an international criminal jurisdiction would appear extremely doubtful in the light of our domestic legal system, under which imposition of penalties is the exclusive prerogative of the judicial authorities, and therefore of the Mexican courts (arts. 21, 103 and 104 of our Political Constitution).
While the State's monopoly on criminal proceedings could be compatible with the notion of optional and concurrent jurisdiction, the nature of the jurisdictional mechanism proposed could lead to its being connected with a special court; this would conflict with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution.
The exceptions envisaged by the draft to the principle non bis in idem, which permit double jeopardy in circumstances that are by no means clear, and the international nature of the court, which makes it necessary to rely on general principles of law and to consider referring to other bodies of legislation in respect of situations not provided for in the Statute (as the Working Group acknowledges in its report), conflict with the guarantees of legal safeguards afforded by our system of law, especially criminal law, in which norms are strictly applied and analogies are tightly restricted.
Moreover, the fact that a number of international instruments do not envisage the penalties to be imposed for crimes of an international character, but simply provide that States have an obligation to prevent and suppress them, indicates that the norms have not been properly incorporated.
In order for a penal norm to meet constitutional requirements, it must consist of a rule (a description of the offence) and must envisage a punishment.
According to the principle nullum crimen sine lege, nulla poena sine lege, which is the basis of our legal system, absence of a punishment constitutes an impediment to the application of the norm (no agreement has been reached on the penalties to be included in the draft Code, although it has been decided that their inclusion is absolutely necessary).
In its report, the Working Group supports the view that the court should have jurisdiction over crimes committed prior to its establishment, provided that the offences in question are crimes of an international character defined by treaties in force at the time when they were committed.
That argument, in the Group's opinion, is rooted in the notion that a retrospective change in proceedings in no way affects the principle of non-retroactivity.
We consider such an approach to be unreasonable.
Aside from the fact that article 14 of our Constitution provides that no person shall be deprived of rights without a trial held before a pre-existing court, in accordance with laws enacted prior to the commission of the offence, the existence of an international treaty which envisages some crime of this type is not in itself sufficient to confer on the court automatic jurisdiction to try and punish the crime, especially if such an instrument recognizes that the national courts of States have the power and the obligation to suppress such offences.
One of the more sensitive issues relates to the handing over of alleged perpetrators to the international court.
Under the assumption that an international court is not a foreign court, the Working Group favours the immediate handing over of the accused, without need for an extradition proceeding, which is questionable.
While it is true that an international court would not be a foreign court, it would not be a domestic court, either; for purposes of handing over an accused person, it would have to be equated with a foreign court and, accordingly, it would be necessary to guarantee that the accused was able to fully exercise his right by the competent national authorities in an extradition proceeding.
New difficulties emerge in this connection.
In the first place, in accordance with practice, the handing over of citizens is subject to the discretion of the federal executive authorities; secondly, the Mexican Act on International Extradition (which would be the applicable law, initially at least), establishes specific requirements for acceding to an extradition request (arts. 7, 8, 9 and 10, inter alia), which conflict with the principles on which an international court would be based, one example being the rule that, where the right of action in respect of the offence in question is time-barred under Mexican criminal law, the extradition request is inadmissible.
There are still a number of ambiguities in the report of the Working Group which would benefit from more thorough analysis, inter alia, those relating to the establishment of a Prosecutor's Office and to the prison system.
However, since the Working Group has given preliminary consideration to them, we will refrain from commenting on them until such time as further information is available.
Currently, the Mexican legal system is incompatible with the establishment of an international criminal jurisdiction.
Nevertheless, we suggest that, in the discussion of the topic, careful consideration be given to the following:
- The nature of the rendering of criminal justice and the close link between that and the exercise of State sovereignty.
Whatever jurisdictional mechanism is finally adopted should reflect maximum respect for the territorial jurisdiction of the judicial organs of individual States, and should have the latter's express consent;
- The need to guarantee the total independence of the jurisdictional body, if and when it is established, and the impartiality of its judges.
Several States have expressed support for a special agreement linking the court to the United Nations system.
Although that proposal is logical, in view of the forum in which the concept has been developed, the types of crimes over which the court would have jurisdiction (aggression, threat of aggression, systematic human rights violations, and so on) make it especially vulnerable to political fluctuations.
A court whose decisions in respect of specific crimes could be overruled by the Security Council could diminish confidence in the international community;
- The need to ensure that the Statute which governs the functioning of the court is drafted in such a way as to envisage specifically each of the cases in which penal norms would be applied, so as to leave little or no room for referral and the application of other additional legislation;
- The fact that rules and punishments constitute basic elements of penal norms which is, moreover, expressed in the universally accepted principle nullum crimen sine lege, nulla poena sine lege, must be reflected in the statute of any court which applies the law.
The characterization of the offence and the applicable penalty should not be omitted from either the international instruments which define crimes of that nature, or the Statute of the court; in the latter case, the principle of legality of the crime requires their inclusion;
- The retroactive application of law, the question of whether statutory limitations should, in fact, apply to crimes deemed to be of an international character, as has been the case, up to now, under the legal systems of many countries, and the notion of permitting double jeopardy are some of the sensitive issues which must be clarified before further steps are taken towards the establishment of a court.
A jurisdictional body should, in principle, try only offences committed following its establishment, and should apply the laws that were in force at the time when the offence was committed;
- The definition of the arrangements for the handing over of alleged perpetrators to the court.
Respect for the right of all persons to a hearing, to due process and to legal safeguards requires the proper observance of extradition treaties and recognition of them as the sole mechanism for handing persons accused of committing an offence over to foreign courts.
[27 April 1993]
The Nordic countries welcome resolution 47/33 adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations at its forty-seventh session requesting the International Law Commission to continue its work on the question of an international criminal jurisdiction by undertaking the project for the elaboration of a draft statute for an international criminal court.
The International Law Commission should consider this project as a matter of priority during its forthcoming session.
The ideal outcome would be for the Commission to draw up a draft statute which could be submitted to the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
In order to make this possible, consideration should be given to whether certain questions of detail could be clarified at a later stage, e.g., during the Commission's second review of the statute.
One such question would, for example, be the composition of the court.
The same applies to the question of the implementation of sentences, which should be given closer consideration.
On the other hand, it may seem expedient and necessary for the Commission to devote more attention to procedural questions than to substantive matters such as describing offences and determining sentences.
A number of detailed proposals for procedural provisions have already been forwarded to the Security Council under its resolution 808 (1993).
The Nordic countries would also emphasize that the question of an international criminal court must be viewed separately from that of a Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind.
Many basic international crimes have already found expression in existing and generally accepted treaty law, and the effective implementation through, inter alia, the establishment of an international criminal court should not await the finalization of the draft Code, a project that may take considerably more time than drafting a statute for a court.
Although the Nordic countries support the idea of establishing a permanent court through an international convention, they are at the same time of the view that the establishment of such a court should be based on an evolutionary approach.
This implies, for example, that the court, at least in its initial phase and until a clear idea is obtained of how much it would be used, should not be a full-time body, but rather an established structure which can be called into operation when required.
The Nordic countries endorse the suggestion in the report of the Commission's Working Group that by becoming a party to the statute, a State would only accept certain administrative obligations.
The States parties should accept the court's jurisdiction by making a declaration to this effect, analogous to acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
States that are not party to the statute should, in conformity with the two-step process described in paragraph 444 of the report of the Working Group, also be given an opportunity to declare their acceptance of the court's jurisdiction on an ad hoc basis.
As regards the subject-matter jurisdiction (jurisdiction ratione materiae) of a court, this should be based on international conventions, such as the Geneva Conventions and Protocols and a prospective Code of Crimes, rather than on national legislation.
Particularly in a long-term perspective, the use of national legislation could pose certain problems, e.g., as regards which acts are defined as offences in the legislation of the various countries, descriptions of offences, determining sentences, etc.
The offences within the jurisdiction of the court should be limited to serious crimes against mankind such as war crimes, be they committed by high military commanders or soldiers in the battlefield.
On the other hand, there is a great need for a more precise definition of war crimes as well as the concept "serious offence".
As regards the personal jurisdiction (jurisdiction ratione personae) of a court, the consent of the State of which the accused is a national should not be required.
Nor should the consent of the State where the offence was committed be required unless the perpetrator is under the jurisdiction of that State.
Generally speaking, the jurisdiction of a court should be very wide; if the consent of the various States involved is required, this could easily impair the effectiveness of such a court.
Reference is also made to the statement made by Norway on behalf of the Nordic countries in the Sixth Committee on 27 October 1992 during the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly.
Distr.
A/CONF.157/LACRM/14
25 February 1992
ENGLISH Original: ENGLISH/SPANISH
WORLD CONFERENCE ON HUMAN RIGHTS
Regional Meeting for Latin America
and the Caribbean
San José, Costa Rica, 18-22 January 1993
Agenda items 7, 8, 11 and 12
RECOMMENDATIONS TO ENSURE THE NECESSARY TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL COOPERATION
FOR THE STRENGTHENING OF THE PROMOTION AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
Written statements submitted by non-governmental organizations in
consultative status with the Economic and Social Council and by
other non-governmental organizations
1. Coalition against Trafficking in Women (category II).
2. International Human Rights Law Group, (category II).
Item 8: "Human rights of women and the World Conference
on Human Rights" 6
3. Liberal International (category II).
Item 12: "Recommendations addressed to the World
4. Bahá'í International Community (category II).
Item 12: "The Bahá'í faith and human rights" 11
5. World University Service (category II).
Item 12: "Academic freedom and university autonomy" 12
6. Service, Peace and Justice in Latin America
(category II). Item 12: "Topics for discussion
at the World Conference on Human Rights" 14
7. International Organization for the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination (category II).
Item 12: "Equality of treatment and opportunity" 18
8. World Organization against Torture (roster).
Conference on Human Rights 19
II. WRITTEN STATEMENTS SUBMITTED BY OTHER NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
1. International Union of Students.
Item 7: "Human
rights and democratic freedoms" 23
2. Centre of Environmental Studies.
Item 8: "Human
rights and the environment" 24
3. Rutherford Institute in Latin America.
Item 8: "The
right to freedom of religious expression and the right
to life" 27
Item 8: "Appeal for peace and respect for the rights
of all men and women" 30
5. Coordinadora Regional de Investigaciones Económicas
y Sociales.
Items 11 and 12: "General observations
on structural adjustment programmes" 31
6. Asamblea Permanente de Derechos Humanos de Bolivia.
Item 12: "Violations of fundamental human rights" 33
7. Guyana Human Rights Association.
Item 12: "The right to development" 35
8. Guyana Human Rights Association.
Item 12: "United Nations
actions in the field of equality and non-discrimination" 36
Item 12: "Impunity of crimes against humanity in
Latin America" 37 page
I. WRITTEN STATEMENTS SUBMITTED BY NON-GOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS IN CONSULTATIVE STATUS WITH THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL
1. Coalition against Trafficking in Women
Sexual exploitation violates human rights
1. Many international women's human rights achievements are seriously threatened by the massive sexual exploitation of women, especially in prostitution.
2. Industrialized prostitution, such as sex tourism and mail-order brides, is promoted by multinational conglomerates that specialize in producing packages of "sexual services".
Entire villages in Thailand, the Philippines and other South-East Asian countries have been turned into centres for prostitution tourism for military personnel and businessmen.
Traffickers are showing an increasing interest in women and girls in Latin America.
3. It is estimated that since the mid-1970s, this traffic has affected 30 million women.
Women in the migration process, refugee women and children, women working in free trade zones, poor women, handicapped women, women prisoners and victims of sexual abuse in childhood are among the groups most vulnerable to prostitution and sexual exploitation.
Prostitution deeply aggravates the harm experienced by women in these situations.
5. In recent decades, massive increases in global prostitution have been accompanied by intensive campaigns to legitimize it by promoting false distinctions between "free" and "forced" prostitution which only serve to make one exploitation more acceptable than the other.
Prostitution sexually exploits and therefore harms women.
As long as prostitution itself is ignored as a violation of women's human rights and men can buy sex and women's bodies with impunity, different and more degrading and inhuman practices will flourish, placing the human rights of women, both prostitutes and non-prostitutes, increasingly at risk.
6. Prostitution violates women's well-established right to human dignity, bodily integrity and physical and mental well-being and constitutes an extreme example of sex discrimination.
Women's rights have already been established universally and their protection must be extended to all women who engage in prostitution, including the right to a decent standard of living, to custody of one's children, to protection from sexually transmitted diseases and to a private life, as well as freedom from ostracism for being a prostitute.
However, the pro-prostitution lobby subordinates these rights by making paramount the "right to prostitution", which is represented as a choice made by women.
The concept of human rights rejects the use of the standard of individual choice as the basis of a right when it includes the right to harm another or to inflict harm on oneself.
7. Today, the 1949 Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others has only limited value in protecting women's human rights because: (a) it promotes decriminalization, which frees the "customer" to buy sex; and (b) it ignores the effect of sexual exploitation in prostitution and the role of prostitution in women's overall subordination in society.
However, because it prohibits pimping, we recommend that the 1949 Convention be strengthened, especially in terms of monitoring.
8. A new approach to prostitution which recognizes that it sexually exploits and victimizes women in required and must be developed on the basis of universal human rights standards applicable to all persons.
9. In focusing on sexual exploitation, the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women has proposed a new international law that will directly challenge the legitimacy of treating women as sexual merchandise.
Furthermore, the new law must identify prostitution with all situations of sexual exploitation, including sexual harassment, sexual violence against children and all forms of sexual violence against adult women.
10. Sexual exploitation is a violation of human dignity.
Therefore:
(a) Freedom from sexual exploitation is a fundamental human right;
(b) Sexual exploitation is a practice by which person(s) achieve sexual gratification or financial gain or personal advancement through abuse of a person's sexuality by abrogating that person's human right to dignity, equality, autonomy and physical and mental well-being;
(c) Sexual exploitation takes the form of, but is not limited to, sexual harassment, rape, incest, wife abuse, pornography and prostitution.
Prostitution includes prostitution in and around military bases, sex tourism, mail-order brides and trafficking in women;
(d) As sexual exploitation violates human rights, in prostitution we must depenalize the prostitute and penalize the customer and anyone who promotes sexual exploitation, including pimps and procurers;
(e) Sexual exploitation violates the human rights of anyone subjected to it, female or male, adult or child, rich or poor;
(f) Sexual exploitation preys on women and children made vulnerable by poverty and underdevelopment, economic policies which promote immigration for temporary labour, and development policies which ignore or discriminate against women;
(g) Sexual exploitation of women through prostitution victimizes and harms all women and society at large.
symbolizes or conveys the message that all women can be sold or are goods for sale.
Sexual exploitation makes women less than human and reinforces their second-class citizenship or inferior status throughout the world.
2. International Human Rights Law Group
Human rights of women and the World Conference
on Human Rights, 1993
1. The International Human Rights Law Group joins women's rights activists worldwide in calling on the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights to examine the failure of the United Nations to respond effectively to the persistent violations of women's fundamental human rights that are occurring in every region of the world.
Both the United Nations specialized agencies and the political organs dealing with human rights have largely ignored violations of women's human rights.
Abuses affecting women disproportionately or specifically based on gender - such as rape, restrictions on women's legal capacity or the denial of their right to food - are frequently overlooked or characterized as social or cultural practices that exceed the sphere of human rights norms and the procedures for applying them.
Procedures for implementing the prohibition against sexual discrimination are still weak compared with the systematic discrimination on grounds of sex found in family law, family life, political and public life, employment and education.
The World Conference must adopt recommendations for modifying existing human rights mechanisms and adopting new initiatives which ensure that Governments are held responsible for such violations.
2. Among the issues related to women's human rights which should be included in the agenda of the World Conference, the Group wishes to emphasize the following:
(a) First of all, in reviewing developments in the field of human rights since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Conference must take into account the failure of existing mechanisms to pay proper attention to violations of women's human rights, including abuses related specifically to gender, in areas within their sphere of competence.
The Committees set up under the International Covenants (with the obvious exception of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the rapporteurs appointed and the working groups established by the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities and the Commission on Human Rights, and experts appointed under the programme of advisory services have either ignored or minimized abuses based specifically on gender.
(b) Training programmes and supervisory procedures are essential for ensuring that a specifically gender-based analysis is included in the work of human rights mechanisms, especially in fact-finding and in the formulation of recommendations to States.
The High Commissioner's staff will therefore have to be knowledgeable about women's human rights;
(c) In evaluating human rights mechanisms, the Conference should examine the issue of violence against women.
In every region of the world, women suffer forms of violence that violate their fundamental human rights, including domestic violence, rape, sexual aggression, female infanticide, the killing of women and children by family members "to preserve the family honour", murder for lack of or insufficient dowry and other forms of violence related to customs or traditional practices, and the preference for sons which results in inferior nutrition, health care and education for girls;
(d) The World Conference should call on States to take practical steps to eliminate violence against women, which is endemic in all societies.
There are various forms of violence against women that violate safeguards established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and other human rights instruments.
The Conference should adopt recommendations to ensure that gender-based acts of violence are taken into account, as violations of existing safeguards, in United Nations procedures for observing and reporting on human rights situations and dealing with complaints;
(e) The Group acknowledges the recent steps taken by the United Nations to enforce international protection against violence directed specifically at women, through the preparation of the draft declaration on violence against women adopted by the intersessional meeting of the Commission on the Status of Women held in 1992.
There is an urgent need to define the implications of States' obligations to prevent and respond to violence against women in public and private life;
(f) In the second place, and in order to enforce the prohibition against sex discrimination, the Conference should consider means for strengthening implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
A great number of far-reaching reservations have been made to the Convention. Some of them are so broad and so vague as to make it impossible to determine the sphere of obligations that States still have.
In addition, several of those reservations exclude the States entering them from the basic obligation of eliminating discrimination based on gender and are thus incompatible with the purpose and intent of the treaty.
The Conference should appeal to States Parties to withdraw their reservations or reformulate in more specific terms those that are not compatible with the purpose and intent of the Convention;
(g) A second step towards enhancing application of the Convention would be to adopt an optional protocol creating a procedure for the submission of individual and intergovernmental complaints. An optional protocol allowing for complaints would provide a means for making reparation to victims and would open the way for subsequent interpretation and application of the Convention;
(h) In the third place, in its consideration of the interdependence and indivisibility of economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights, the Conference should examine reports and studies that refer specifically to gender.
The denial of economic rights and the negative impact of structural adjustment policies in many countries have had a disproportionate effect on women, because of sex discrimination in public and family life and the role played by women in economic production.
The Conference should recommend means for strengthening the application of economic, social and cultural rights, such as the creation of an optional complaints procedure under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and should encourage the Sub-Commission and the Commission to consider appointing a special rapporteur to study the link between racial and sex discrimination in the practice of specific economic, social and cultural rights;
(i) In the fourth place, the Conference should carefully examine the activities carried out by the United Nations to promote peace, its mechanisms for responding to emergencies and its humanitarian assistance as "contemporary trends in and new challenges to the full realization of all human rights" of men and women.
In particular, the Conference should recommend measures for preventing and responding to abuses specifically related to gender in situations of internal or international armed conflict or ethnic conflict.
The systematic and massive raping of women in Bosnia are evidence of the horror and gravity of abuses against women in situations of conflict;
(j) In the fifth place, as suggested in resolution AFRM/13, on the protection of human rights of women, adopted by the Regional Meeting for Africa, governments should consider all forms of religious or cultural intolerance that deny the human rights and freedoms of women.
In considering the need to ensure the universality of human rights, it should be recognized that religious revival in many religious traditions has resulted in systematic restrictions on the basic rights of women;
(k) In the sixth place, in formulating recommendations for stressing cooperation in the field of human rights, the World Conference should ensure that the human rights dimensions of issues that have implications for the work of the specialized agencies are not neglected.
In particular, the human rights dimensions of the AIDS pandemic can be adequately dealt with only through the combined efforts of the United Nations specialized agencies and human right agencies, with special attention being given to the needs of women.
As the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has stressed in its general recommendation No. 15, programmes to combat AIDS should give special attention to the rights and needs of women and children, and to the factors relating to the reproductive role of women and their subordinate position in some societies which make them especially vulnerable to HIV infection.
Recommendations for adoption by the World Conference
3. In order to promote the full realization of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of women, the Group urges States members participating in the World Conference to recommend the following measures for enhancing implementation of the human rights of women.
(a) A United Nations special rapporteur on gender-based discrimination and on violence against women should be appointed through the human rights programme based in Geneva.
The rapporteur should be authorized to receive and transmit information from Governments, non-governmental organizations and intergovernmental institutions; to respond effectively to complaints of abuses against women, and to recommend measures for preventing the continuation of such abuses.
(b) The application of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women should be strengthened by:
(i) Appealing to States parties to withdraw those reservations to the Convention that constitute obstacles to its effective application, to object to reservations entered by other States parties that are incompatible with the purpose and intent of the Convention and to endorse the suggestion by the meeting of Coordinators that the Sub-Commission should prepare an analysis of questions on incompatibility deriving from the reservations to the main human rights treaties;
(ii) Appealing to a Working Group of the Commission on the Status of Women to design procedures to draw up a draft optional protocol establishing a procedure for the submission of individual complaints under the Convention and supporting the drawing up of such an optional protocol;
(iii) Providing adequate financial and human resources to the Committee on the elimination of Discrimination Against Women.
(c) Steps should be taken to ensure that committees established under the International Covenants, rapporteurs and working groups dealing with specific subjects and countries, independent experts and other bodies responsible for protecting human rights study violations of the human rights of women, including abuses specifically related to gender, in those areas falling within their mandates (through assistance services and training programmes, and observation, reporting and complaint procedures).
These steps should include the following:
(i) Training of support personnel in the areas of human rights and humanitarian assistance offered by the United Nations and of independent experts in order to ensure that they study human rights abuses that specifically affect women and that they carry out their work without any prejudice based on gender;
(ii) Regular assessments of the effectiveness of United Nations observation, reporting and complaint procedures, as well as of the Organization's advisory services and training programmes relating to the analysis and preparation of more effective responses to violations of the human rights of women.
(d) Goals and deadlines should be established to ensure equal representation of women on all committees set up under the International Covenants, as well as among special rapporteurs and working groups established by the Commission on Human Rights, the Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities and in the programme of advisory services in the field of human rights.
3. Liberal International
1. The World Conference on Human Rights offers the community of nations and the peoples of the world, represented by government and non-governmental organizations, an opportunity to reaffirm their commitment to the promotion of human rights and consider the establishment of new instruments and institutions to combat flagrant mass human rights violations which pose a threat to humanity.
2. In support of the deliberations and decisions of the World Conference, Liberal International recommends:
(a) urgently calling for the appointment of a commissioner of human rights and minorities;
(b) recommending the establishment of an international court of human rights;
(c) broadening the scope of existing human rights conventions to include the examination of the situation of all victims of domestic armed conflicts;
(d) drafting a United Nations convention providing for immediate intervention in the event of serious breaches of international law, human rights or minority rights;
(e) deciding to establish institutions in all regions so that persons, groups or States can intervene swiftly and efficiently in order to enforce respect for human rights;
(f) urging all States to create a legal climate in which non-governmental human rights organizations feel motivated to do their share in order to make an effective contribution to the promotion and protection of human rights;
(g) reminding all States to promote human rights educational programmes, widely publicize rights and make every effort to enforce all available international, national and regional instruments.
3. Liberal International wishes to stress, in particular, the close relationship between human rights, democracy and development.
The recent recognition of new human rights such as the right to development or the right to a sound environment shows that international human rights norms are continually evolving.
Such new rights should be developed further in order to enhance those already existing.
4. Practicable paths towards the realization of the right to development must be found.
According to the 1986 United Nations Declaration, human beings must be at the centre of an integral development process which includes civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights.
To that end, effective action must be taken by all parties involved in the process, particularly international financial institutions.
5. Respect for human rights is essential for achieving the objectives of the United Nations, and establishing and maintaining peace and equality.
Accordingly, the Organization's human rights programmes must be provided with the material and financial resources necessary to that end.
Recent events have highlighted the vital role played by non-governmental organizations in promoting human rights throughout the world.
It is time to recognize the role and status of non-governmental organizations in human rights issues at the national and international level.
4. Baha'i International Community
The Baha'i faith and human rights
The Baha'i International Community wishes to stress that the main purpose, the fundamental objective of enacting powerful laws and establishing lofty principles and major institutions covering all aspects of civilization is human happiness, which consists in drawing near to the threshold of almighty God and ensuring peace and well-being for every member of the human race; and that the supreme instruments for achieving these two objectives are the excellent qualities with which humankind is endowed.
The cornerstone of the foundation of human rights - justice - is the central interest of the Baha'i faith.
Baha'i communities around the world live in the belief that justice is the expression of love and unity in social life, and Baha'is have accepted Baha'u'llah, the prophet and founder of their faith, as the standard of justice for our time and the source of divine law.
From the Baha'i standpoint, the worldwide establishment of human rights depends directly on the response of the human race to this divine gift for human transformation.
World peace and civilization can be achieved only if each person, through education and divine laws, develops his or her innate spiritual qualities.
The capacity for unity, justice, love, compassion, mercy, honesty and trustworthiness - virtues which are all potentially latent in us - must grow under the wise and powerful direction of the divine educator until we become social beings with a spiritually developed nature that will guide us to the fulfilment of our destiny and that of the world.
Baha'i teachings converge on the idea that the integrity of the family tie must constantly be borne in mind: there must be no violation of the rights of any member of the family, of the rights of the children, of those of the father, or of those of the mother. Thus, just as children have certain obligations towards their fathers, so fathers have certain obligations towards their children.
Mothers, brothers and sisters and other members of the family have their own prerogatives.
All these rights and prerogatives must be maintained and family unity must be sustained.
An offence to one must be considered an offence to all; the comfort of one, as the comfort of all; the honour of one, as the honour of all.
Another important teaching is that of equality of rights and opportunities for men and women.
Indeed, all human beings are creatures and servants of one God.
The world of humankind consists of two parts: men and women.
Each one compliments the other; consequently, if one is defective, the other will necessarily be incomplete, and it will not be possible to achieve perfection ...
Therefore, women must receive the same education as men ...
There must be no difference in the education of men and women, in order that women may develop the same capacities ... and may participate along with men in social and economic life.
Baha'u'llah taught that a new world can only be constructed by a new race of men and women; order and civilization can only be established in the world by people whose actions reflect values of love, unity and justice, applied equally to all races, beliefs, nationalities and classes.
We ask that the agenda of the World Conference on Human Rights include the following items:
1. Protection of the rights of the family.
2. Protection of the rights of children.
3. Equality of rights and opportunities for both women and men.
5. World University Service
Academic freedom and university autonomy
1. The World University Service draws the attention of the Regional Meeting for Latin America and the Caribbean of the World Conference on Human Rights to the situation of systematic violation of the human rights of university staff and students in the region and to the need to adopt international mechanisms and instruments which guarantee full observance of the right to education and other rights established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
2. In recent years, university staff and students in Latin America and the Caribbean have been prime targets of repression and intolerance and have suffered persecution; their rights have been trampled upon and they have been prevented from carrying out their full range of academic and scientific activities.
3. The cases of the University of San Carlos in Guatemala and the national universities of El Salvador, Haiti, Peru and Colombia, among others, have given rise to numerous complaints of murders, arrests, disappearances and torture of lecturers, students and administrative authorities and employees, and of military occupation of universities, destruction of their equipment and obstruction of the exercise of their fundamental rights.
4. This situation has been compounded in recent years by the growing trend in some countries towards limiting the pursuit of academic life by means of administrative measures that cut back on university budgets, thereby reducing universities' research and other activities and extension work and curtailing free access to higher education.
All these measures have been adopted in the context of structural adjustment programmes, which have been denounced time and again for restricting the economic, social and cultural rights of peoples and their right to development.
5. This year's World Conference on Human Rights offers an ideal opportunity for the international community to take the necessary steps to guarantee the full exercise of academic freedom, understood as the right of all members of the academic community individually or collectively, to develop and transmit knowledge through study, research, discussion, documentation, production, creation and teaching.
6. The World University Service declares that the protection of academic freedom and university autonomy are the cornerstones of any sound educational system and also a necessary precondition for the safeguarding of other basic rights and freedoms linked to development and the maintenance of democracy.
7. The utmost efforts must be made to ensure that everyone enjoys the right, based on his or her abilities and competence and without discrimination of any kind, to become a member of an academic community, to be protected against arbitrary treatment and to enjoy all basic rights.
8. Academic freedom is an especially important right in higher education and derives from the right to education and its relationship with freedom of thought and freedom of expression and opinion.
9. Taking into account the above considerations and also the basic considerations set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (1966), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966) and UNESCO instruments in the field of human rights and education, particularly the covenant against discrimination in education (1960), the Declaration of the Principles of International Cultural Cooperation (1966) and the recommendation on the status of scientific research (1974).
The World University Service proposes:
1. That the Regional Meeting recommend to the World Conference on Human Rights the adoption of an international declaration on academic freedom in keeping with the considerations set forth in the Lima declaration on academic freedom and autonomy of higher education institutes (1988), the magna carta of European universities (Bologna, 1988), the Dar-es-Salaam declaration on academic freedom and the social responsibility of academics (1990) and the Kampala declaration on intellectual freedom and social responsibility (1990).
2. That the Regional Meeting recommend to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) that, on the basis of the above-mentioned declarations and other inputs, it prepare an international instrument for the protection and promotion of academic freedom and university autonomy.
Topics for discussion at the World Conference on Human Rights
1. Participation of non-governmental organizations
The secretariat established at the meetings of the Preparatory Committee that non-governmental human rights organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council and those working actively in the field of human rights and/or development and based in the corresponding regions may, after consulting with the countries of the region, participate in the World Conference on Human Rights.
This provision does not specify whether these organizations must be regional or national, or their level of participation in the World Conference (indicating only that they are to have observer status).
The participation of national human rights institutions is vitally important to our organizations, since they represent years of struggle for the observance of human rights in the countries of Latin America and throughout the world, and are thus the best vehicle for reproducing the conclusions and advances of the Conference at the local level.
The Conference should include not only regional representatives, which not all organizations have, but also the direct participation of non-governmental organizations which maintain ongoing activities and close relations with those who suffer violations of their rights on a day-to-day basis.
The contributions of these organizations, which have accumulated a wealth of experience, are also essential for reviewing the observance of human rights over the past 25 years and for improving future United Nations practice in this field.
We therefore consider that the United Nations Centre for Human Rights should also collaborate by providing the necessary information and by partially or totally funding the attendance of representatives of non-governmental organizations at the Conference and at the regional preparatory meetings.
2. The agenda
The objectives proposed by the General Assembly in its resolution 45/155 appear to reflect current needs regarding the necessary tools for ensuring the observance of human rights.
However, we would like to present the following observations on some topics for discussion at the Conference.
2.1 Economic, social and cultural rights.
Right to development.
As stated in the second objective of the World Conference on Human Rights, the universal enjoyment of human rights is directly related to their indivisibility.
Experience has taught us that an environment of respect for human rights cannot be created if some of these rights are violated, even for the "benefit" of the others.
It is still less permissible to restrict the scope of human rights to civil and political rights, as some recent public statements have implied, and to ignore the obligation of every State to provide decent living conditions for its people.
As Latin American organizations, we feel that this topic should be dealt with in all its dimensions (political, economic, ethical and social), since it characterizes our societies today.
While it is true that mass violations of individual rights have declined (despite the persistence of systematic State violation of human rights in some countries), violations of economic, social and cultural rights have proliferated, not as an unwanted side-effect of democratic adjustment but as part of a deliberate policy that progressively marginalizes most of the population and condemns it to poverty; in this regard, see the report of the expert Danilo Türk (E/CN.4/Sub.2/1992/16).
This policy goes hand in hand with the State's abandonment of all social responsibility and generates a type of democracy that effectively questions its own validity by failing to meet the most basic social demands.
The application of these policies constitutes a violation of various rights established in the Universal Declaration, the Covenants and subsequent conventions (on health, education, decent housing, labour law, rights of the child, etc.).
Their consequences for the region are imperilling the future of Latin Americans.
On the occasion of the World Conference, the United Nations should review its monitoring and advisory mechanisms, as well as the functioning of its own bodies in the economic field (the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank), since the latter's decisions directly affect the observance of human rights. The Organization should also establish mechanisms for the comprehensive evaluation of respect for these rights.
2.2 Justice and impunity
Latin American democracies are also adversely affected by impunity.
This phenomenon, understood as the failure to punish those who have committed crimes against human rights, undermines the very concept of equality before the law and lays the foundations for a social system in which justice is obtained by only a select few.
Impunity thereby becomes a "law" which exempts a given group of people (usually close to those in power) from any control over their actions, while the vast majority faces a "selective" justice system that places a disproportionate burden on the most vulnerable sectors.
As the expert Danilo Türk states in the afore-mentioned report, "We need only consider the fact that many of the daily actions carried out by disadvantaged social groups are considered by public officials in many countries as technically 'illegal', with the use of law designed to infringe and not respect the rights of the poor".
The United Nations has determined, in various forums (such as the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances), that impunity is the greatest incentive for committing human rights violations.
Nothing is more favourable to the commission of a crime than the assurance that it will go unpunished.
We refer in particular to civil and political offences - such as disappearance, torture, etc. - but consideration must also be given to impunity with regard to economic and other offences, which lead to situations of widespread corruption and injustice that threatens the survival of democracy.
At its most recent session, the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities adopted, without a vote, the resolution contained in document E/CN.4/Sub.2/1992/L.28, in which it recommends that the Commission and the Economic and Social Council authorize two experts to carry out a study on impunity.
This resolution is based on the working paper of Messrs. Louis Joinet and El Hadji Guissé on the struggle against this phenomenon (E/CN.4/Sub.2/1992/18), which sets forth important recommendations which we endorse.
In addition, a group of 28 non-governmental organizations submitted a document summarizing the main causes of impunity (E/CN.4/Sub.2/1990/NGO/20).
We take a special interest in the review of justice systems, since they are one of the factors which give rise to impunity when, instead of functioning independently, they act in connivance with political power and limit themselves to validating the latter's decisions.
The World Conference on Human Rights is an excellent forum for discussing impunity, which is one of the most serious human rights issues and which constitutes in itself a violation of these rights.
We propose that this topic be included as an agenda item, since the effects of impunity are not confined to Latin American countries, but represent a universal problem.
2.3 Right to self-determination
Unfortunately, some States in Latin America and other areas of the world still suffer from interference by another State, usually a more powerful one, and even the occupation of their territories.
In the current configuration of world power (which tends towards unipolarity), this phenomenon has become more dangerous for countries of the so-called third world.
Latin America is still witnessing situations such as that of Panama (which has been occupied by United States troops since December 1989) and the growing threat that the right of self-determination will be curtailed, in view of unilateral manifestations of power such as the United States Supreme Court decision authorizing kidnapping in any country of the world.
Equally perilous is the situation of Cuba, which is suffering international pressures in addition to the trade embargo imposed by the United States for more than 30 years, all of which constitute an attack on the basic rights of its people.
The "Torricelli amendment", condemned by the United Nations General Assembly, illustrated the lengths to which a great Power may go to interfere in the internal affairs of another country, even violating the right of third countries to decide freely on trade policy.
Drug trafficking, which is undoubtedly harmful to the stability and development of our peoples, has given rise to flagrant violations of the right to self-determination of countries considered "producers" of the raw material, with the adoption of unilateral "solutions" that include the sending of foreign troops.
This phenomenon represents a new challenge for the United Nations, which must find solutions that reflect the reality of the countries involved and not the political and economic interests of the great Powers.
The militarization of these societies, far from cutting down on trafficking and trade in drugs, has once again jeopardized the principle of non-intervention.
Thus, Latin America is also suffering from the problems of this type experienced in other parts of the world (such as East Timor, Western Sahara and the region of Palestine, among others).
2.4 Monitoring mechanisms
This subject is important to the foregoing issues and to all the resolutions, declarations, covenants and conventions adopted by the United Nations.
The Organization's monitoring of its international mechanisms for the promotion of human rights and prevention of the violation thereof must be seriously evaluated.
The need for such an evaluation has been expressed in many areas of the Organization, since it is common for States which have signed these instruments to fail to respect their commitments.
Existing authorities, such as working groups, commissions, treaty bodies and the Centre for Human Rights itself, are essential tools for improving the observance of these rights.
However, repeated violations in many countries show that the current reality is far from satisfactory.
Even advisory services lack evaluations on the part of States, and their work is often ignored or their recommendations are not known by more than a few officials.
They are even used politically by States which then continue to violate human rights.
The participation of non-governmental organizations would be very valuable in this regard since, with the backing of the United Nations they could contribute to the impartiality and the ongoing evaluation of the implementation of these recommendations.
7. International Organization for the Elimination of
All Forms of Racial Discrimination
Equality of treatment and opportunity
The International Organization for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, an institution founded 17 years ago and recognized by the United Nations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, has been struggling since then for equality of treatment and of social, economic and political opportunity all over the world.
This meeting in San José presents us with a unique opportunity to reiterate our belief in the possibility of advancement for the human cause through instruments such as those being created here.
The role of government in promoting development and security for all its citizens has been declining through the emergence of new and powerful multinational economic organizations and a multitude of non-governmental organizations such as ours.
The new forms of mass electronic media and advances in mass transportation have opened up greater opportunities and at the same time new and greater responsibilities for those holding leadership positions in our society.
The non-governmental organizations assembled here are taking advantage of these new and enhanced opportunities for peace and international cooperation, which result also from the end of the cold war and the hope for a new and promising world of understanding and cooperation.
These new possibilities and roles of governments and NGOs cannot, however, be fully realized if the most elementary and basic principles of human rights are not respected fully by all.
Indeed, super-Power policies are now being applied to force the so-called less developed and non-western section of our planet to accept and practice the rules of civilization, human rights included.
This is a formidable development which we should view with renewed hope.
No doubt we should salute those who, without any self interest and/or advantage, pursue efforts to promote human rights everywhere in the world.
However, while such "humanitarian" policies are being promoted in third world countries, the same promoters of human rights policies do little at home to curb racial discrimination involving third-world migrants living in the United States, Europe and Japan.
At the same time horrendous crimes are being committed against entire ethnic groups in Africa, in the former Yugoslavia, in Eastern Europe and in the Middle East without any reaction from the big Powers.
Frequently, double standards are used, and action is taken basically in terms of the strategic, political and economic interests of new planetary law enforces.
Considering these facts which appear in everyday newscasts, we from EAFORD submit to this Regional Meeting for Latin America and the Caribbean of the World Conference on Human Rights the following:
1. Our support for the establishment of a world system for the protection of human rights that will have infrastructure and authority to prevent government and private interests from inflicting on groups and/or individuals damages and/or losses, be they physical, economic, political, cultural, environmental and/or political.
2. That this Meeting submit to the appropriate authorities of the United Nations our disappointment and discontent with the double standards used by the super-Powers in implementing human rights principles and practices, abroad and at home.
3. That this Meeting submit to the United Nations authorities our request that an appeal be made to European, United States and Japanese governments to take firm action to prevent further discrimination and to cease the practices which discriminate groups and individuals of different cultures and races.
4. That this Meeting inform the United Nations authorities of our dissatisfaction with the use of massive war violence against civilian populations by super-Powers in the name of human rights, for we cannot agree with the use of weapons of massive destruction for the implementation of human good.
They can never agree with each other.
8. World Organization against Torture
Since the proclamation of the Universal Declaration, major strides have clearly been made in gaining recognition for human rights.
Such initiatives as legislation, assistance, promotion, international monitoring activities and the development of the human rights movement in general have found expression in the incorporation of principles and norms into the constitutional texts and laws of various countries; the establishment of national mechanisms for supervision, monitoring and promotion; and the emergence of non-governmental organizations - both national and international - inspired by human rights principles and norms.
There are still certain defects, inconsistencies and contradictions in this universal process, however, that must be overcome.
Socio-political and economic developments on the international scene, the worsening imbalance and social inequality in many countries and among States, the emergence of inter-ethnic, political and religious contradictions and conflicts and the resurgence of xenophobia and racism are new challenges that confront us.
The World Organization Against Torture (OMCT) has repeatedly expressed its concern about the need to review and strengthen international monitoring instruments and mechanisms, open up new avenues of international action and ensure the interrelationship and complementarity of the various mechanisms, from a perspective that will increase the effectiveness, dynamism, and objectivity of these mechanisms and make them more accessible to those who need them.
In this context, OMCT believes that, in order to surmount some of the obstacles impeding respect for human rights, it is of the utmost importance that the World Conference encourage the adoption of measures designed to:
- Reaffirm the indivisibility and interdependence of human rights, without hierarchies or priorities among them;
- Promote the development of peoples' capacity to appeal, individually or collectively, to international monitoring bodies;
- Affirm the rights of minorities and indigenous peoples in every respect, at both the national and international level;
- Expand and strengthen existing norms and mechanisms to protect children, women and particularly vulnerable groups and implement those norms effectively;
- Establish more rigorous procedures for thematic and country reporting to oversight bodies, and for on-site inspection and investigation, ensuring that they do not become mere mediation efforts;
- Strengthen advisory and assistance services, avoiding the tendency to use them as a substitute for the interest and attention the Commission should devote to reviewing the situation in countries with a record of serious and persistent human rights violations;
- Strengthen activities to restore peace and establish democracy through mechanisms to ensure the global, long-term promotion and recognition of human rights;
- Establish mechanisms and take appropriate, effective measures to prevent serious human rights violations, particularly torture, enforced disappearances, summary executions, etc.; and
- Encourage the acceptance of the principle of universal competence for the prosecution and punishment of those responsible for serious human rights violations.
The World Organization Against Torture further believes that the adoption of international human rights legislation must be complemented by national efforts to integrate it fully into legal texts and at various institutional levels, and that respect for and promotion and implementation of such legislation should be guaranteed through every possible means and in all circumstances.
To that end, the following steps should be taken:
- Adopt mechanisms to ensure that States ratify international instruments and recognize the competence of international oversight bodies to receive communications addressed to them by individuals, and that citizens are guaranteed the right and necessary means to appeal to such bodies;
- Urge States to comply with their obligations to contribute the necessary resources for the functioning of oversight bodies and to report to such bodies in accordance with the provisions of the respective instruments or whenever those bodies so request;
- Make serious efforts to prevail on States to establish and/or strengthen the appropriate national institutions for ensuring the promotion, monitoring and defence of human rights and to strengthen courts and appeals bodies by ensuring both their necessary independence and their members' proper professional conduct and training in the field of human rights;
- Request States to ensure the right to equality before the law and its implementation without discrimination; to carry out exhaustive, impartial investigations of any human rights violations and to prosecute and punish the material or intellectual authors of such violations;
- Request States to establish appropriate mechanisms and resources for the due compensation or indemnification of victims or their relatives;
- Encourage the adoption of measures that promote the recognition of non-governmental organizations, the protection and safety of their members and their participation in all State activities to disseminate, defend and protect human rights;
- Obtain a serious commitment from Governments that they will make sustained efforts to offer human rights education and training in general and, in particular, among children, youth and the various State bodies.
The imbalance and profound inequality caused or encouraged by the economic policies or economic measures which States have adopted or been forced to accept have had serious consequences for the living standards of the peoples of various countries and, as a result, have aggravated social conflict and violence. This has led to serious human rights violations, especially of the right to life and to physical and psychological integrity.
This phenomenon is the result of the relative inconsistency between principles and norms relating to human rights, on the one hand, and their implementation and observance, on the other, owing to the economic and financial measures and policies adopted by States and financial, economic and cooperation institutions and organizations, both inside and outside the United Nations system.
In order to achieve greater consistency in this area, the World Organization Against Torture believes that the World Conference would make a great contribution if it recommended to the United Nations the establishment of a specialized consultancy mechanism responsible for the elaboration and implementation of new economic policies.
This mechanism might consist of a group of consultants specialized in the promotion and protection of human rights, who would be based at intergovernmental economic institutions and would have the authority to make an analysis of the human rights impact of development projects and of programmes funded by those institutions through loans or guarantees, and to examine, in the short, medium and long term, the effects of those programmes among their target populations.
Such a mechanism should have the authority to oppose any programme whose implementation would clearly be contrary to the promotion of and respect for human rights and to inform the respective United Nations organs so that the necessary corrective action could be taken.
This mechanism should also be able to give concrete definition to the different parameters of the right to development.
II. WRITTEN STATEMENTS SUBMITTED BY OTHER
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
1. International Union of Students
Human Rights and democratic freedoms
The sixteenth Congress of IUS, held in Larnaca, Cyprus, from 20 to 24 January 1992,
1. Having discussed the constitutional commitment of IUS to promoting the right to democracy and the full observance of individual and collective human rights,
Observes:
2. That significant changes have resulted from the struggles of peoples and students for the restoration of democracy and for the observance of human rights, which in recent times have led to the fall of a number of dictatorial, single-party, military, authoritarian or totalitarian regimes in various parts of the world, particularly Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa;
3. That democratic forms of government are required which guarantee the participation of citizens in decision-making, through the election of Governments, the use of pluralistic methods and responsibility on the part of those who govern, together with respect for individual and collective human rights in the political, civil, social, cultural and economic spheres, and in particular the right to freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of organization and association, all of which are basic principles for the development of human life;
4. That the rights to peace, security and freedom; freedom from discrimination on grounds of race, colour, sex, sexual orientation or any type of disability; housing; adequate economic and social conditions; health; work; social security; and leisure were established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and must be observed if people are to live in dignity;
5. That the issue of human rights has today taken on a global and universal importance that transcend all geographical, ideological, political and religious boundaries;
6. That, despite the foregoing, such freedoms and rights are still restricted in some countries by the practices of dictatorial, authoritarian or anti-democratic regimes which often enjoy the support of economic, military or political super-Powers;
7. That students and their organizations have participated actively in the struggle for the right to freedom, democracy and a decent life, and that many of them have given their lives in this struggle;
Stresses:
8. That the struggle of students and the student movement for their own rights has always been closely linked to the global struggle for human rights;
9. The need for IUS and its member organizations, in addition to their promotion and defence of student rights and academic freedoms, to continue organizing campaigns for democracy and human rights in countries where these are being violated, and to work in practical, effective solidarity with the student organizations and students of those countries;
Resolves:
10. That the Executive Secretariat's Division for Student Rights and Academic Freedom, as well as the relevant thematic platform, be mandated to continue the aforementioned policy through a variety of actions, measures and campaigns;
11. That cooperation in this area be carried out with various groups that work for human rights, especially Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the International Commission of Jurists, the Arab Organization for Human Rights, and others;
12. That campaigns and actions be carried out through IUS participation in various intergovernmental forums for the discussion of human rights issues, such as the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, the Council of Europe, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and others;
13. Takes into account the aforementioned factors and, based on the wish of the member unions of IUS to create a thematic platform for human rights and democratic freedoms, resolves to carry out actions and adopt all appropriate measures to promote and defend the policy and interests of IUS in this area.
2. Centre of Environmental Studies
Human rights and the environment
Sound environmental conditions and the availability of sufficient resources to live a decent life - both individually and collectively, according to each culture's traditions - are an inalienable and fundamental human right that must not be the sole prerogative of an economic, social or cultural elite.
Democratic management of the environment, together with the strengthening of popular participation in decision-making, would bring about a more equitable distribution of environmental benefits.
The pattern of exploitation of human and material resources in Latin America, begun 500 years ago, exemplifies a type of development that is incompatible with the protection and promotion of the environment and human rights.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights does not expressly deal with the topic of human rights and the environment; at the time it was proclaimed, the environment was just becoming an issue, and began to be observed methodically in all its aspects shortly thereafter.
The environment can be described as a system: a set of elements that interact among themselves, including both natural elements (life in the forests or oceans) and those created by human beings (cities, industry, etc.).
All of these - in their relations and interactions - make up the environment.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights establish, in their articles 3 and 6, respectively, that the right to life is inherent to the human person and that it is linked to other rights, including the right to health, to adequate working conditions, to decent living conditions, etc. In this sense, environmental conditions are directly related to the right to life.
Moreover, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights establishes, in its article 11, "... the right of everyone to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family, including adequate food, clothing and housing". These rights are elements of the social and natural environment and of the state in which the latter must be maintained in order to create decent living conditions.
On our continent, the Additional Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights establishes, in its article 11, that everyone has the right to live in a healthy environment and to benefit from basic public services; States parties must promote the protection, preservation and improvement of the environment.
However, the environment - and the behaviour of its elements (natural, economic, social and other resources) - must be considered in terms of human needs for the full development of individual and community life.
In January 1990, the World Consultation on the Right to Development as a Human Right was held, where it was concluded that development strategies which had centred exclusively on economic growth had largely failed in their attempts to achieve social justice, that human rights had been clearly violated and that the world's future could only be assured if the global environment was duly protected and restored.
In June 1992, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development was held in Rio de Janeiro. Its Declaration establishes, in its various principles, that:
"Human beings ... are entitled to a healthy and productive life in harmony with nature".
"The right to development must be fulfilled so as to equitably meet developmental and environmental needs of present and future generations".
"All States and all people shall cooperate in the essential task of eradicating poverty as an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, in order to decrease the disparities in standards of living and better meet the needs of the majority of the people of the world".
"Indigenous people and their communities and other local communities have a vital role in environmental management and development because of their knowledge and traditional practices.
States should recognize and duly support their identity, culture and interests and enable their effective participation".
"The environment and natural resources of people under oppression, domination and occupation shall be protected".
"Peace, development and environmental protection are interdependent and indivisible".
Traditional development models in Latin America have produced the situation in which we now find ourselves.
The region has suffered an increase in poverty and severe environmental degradation.
In the most disadvantaged sectors of our region, these variables feed on each other, giving rise to an "environment of poverty" where healthy surroundings are the privilege of a select few, and affecting different vulnerable groups (women, indigenous peoples, minorities, children, residents of occupied territories, etc.) in different ways.
We therefore:
Urge that the right to a healthy environment be expressly declared a human right indivisible from and interdependent with the other human rights already established;
Support a regional approach that emphasizes a Latin American agenda for the environment and human rights which covers the following topics:
Integration of environmental issues into international mechanisms for the protection of human rights, so that violations of environmental rights may be reported;
Protection, support and promotion of indigenous cultures and other vulnerable groups;
Commitment on the part of States to enacting effective regulations to protect the environment from harm and the threat of harm;
Commitment on the part of States to including representatives of affected groups in decision-making processes on environmental issues, so that the real wishes of those involved may be expressed.
Guaranteeing legal recourse, through speedy, simple processes, for the protection of the environment;
Guaranteeing the distribution of the environmental benefits (natural and human resources) needed for individual and group development.
3. Rutherford Institute of Latin America
The right to freedom of religious expression and the right to life
The Rutherford Institute in Latin America has requested that this statement be distributed to participants and incorporated in the resolutions of the Regional Meeting and the final document.
(1) RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF RELIGIOUS EXPRESSION
Background
The explosive change in religious affiliation by millions of Latin Americans, especially since the mid-1960s, is common knowledge.
The Catholic Church and some religious research centres estimate that between 15 per cent and 20 per cent of Latin Americans, or around 50 million people, belong to Protestant faiths, and many more do not belong to either the Catholic Church or the Evangelical and Protestant Churches but rather to other faiths.
In a society that has traditionally been authoritarian and hierarchical, this shift in religious affiliation has heightened friction, confrontation and potential violations of the human rights to freedom of conscience and worship.
Constitutional reforms
Recent constitutional changes concerning freedom of conscience and worship in the Republic of Colombia (1991) and the Republic of Paraguay (1992), which separate church and State and effectively guarantee (at least in theory) the right to religious freedom, are vital points of reference to be heeded by other Latin American nations.
Argentina and Bolivia, which, together with Costa Rica, are the only Latin American countries that still have an official religion, are already considering major constitutional changes that would guarantee all their citizens the full exercise of freedom of religious expression without discrimination.
The Argentine and Colombian Congresses are also in the process of debating the adoption of specific laws on religious freedom that would fully guarantee these rights to all their citizens.
Violations of the right to religious freedom
Despite the aforementioned advances, reports of violations of the right to religious freedom are still common.
To cite a few examples:
Cases of threats, persecution and forcible eviction of the Chamulla Indians and other indigenous peoples in southern Mexico for professing the Evangelical faith are internationally known.
In Bolivia, abuses by State entities and intolerant communities, especially in rural areas, against religious groups have been documented and denounced at both the national and international levels.
In Peru, guerrillas have "declared war" on religious groups (Catholics, Evangelicals and others) and have, in fact, killed hundreds, if not thousands, of members of the clergy because of their faith and their actions based on and motivated by that faith.
Also, many killings of members of the clergy have been attributed to government military forces.
Colombia has witnessed the suffering and death of countless members of the clergy and other persons who have been discriminated against on grounds of their faith.
Our demand
We call upon the Governments of the Latin American countries, which are parties to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief, the International Covenants on civil, political and cultural rights and other conventions and instruments which affirm and protect the right to freedom of conscience and worship, to enforce the national and international laws which safeguard these rights.
In addition, we ask organizations that defend human rights to devote more attention to violations of the right to religious freedom and to carry out educational programmes to discourage religious intolerance in Latin America.
Lastly, echoing the resolution adopted at the Regional Meeting for Africa of the World Conference on Human Rights, which included the topic of religious freedom as one of the priority items on its agenda, and taking into account the calls issued by the ambassadors of European countries and of the United States to discuss religious intolerance in Europe (such as in the former Yugoslavia), we request that the Final Declaration of the Regional Meeting for Latin America and the Caribbean include the topic of religious freedom in Latin America, and that the World Conference on Human Rights analyse mechanisms for guaranteeing the religious freedom of all Latin Americans.
(2) RIGHT TO LIFE
In Bolivia, for example, out of a population of 6.5 million, 42,000 abortions are performed each year, or five abortions per hour.
These figures may be inflated or may need to be further verified.
However, how can these abortions occur in a country like Bolivia, where the Penal Code provides for two to seven years of prison for the mother, consenting father and the physician or other person who performs the abortion?
Only a few abortion cases actually reach the courts, and these are mostly abortions that have resulted in the death of the mother.
Legislation
In all Latin American countries, without exception, the crime of abortion is punishable by a prison sentence, because it is generally accepted that abortion takes the life of a human being.
In only a few countries are exceptions made in cases of rape, incest or where the mother's life is in danger, as certified by a medical examination and authorized by judicial order.
Proposals to decriminalize abortion
To make matters worse, some groups have recently decided to promote the decriminalization of abortion in Latin America.
It is true that certain conditions of critical poverty exist, and that a great many people, especially women, lack even the minimal conditions of education, health and employment.
Many families already have a number of children to support, and cannot afford to have any more.
In a few cases, women have been raped or have been victims of incest, and suffer from the consequent physical and mental harm (these are crimes which should be severely punished).
However, is this reason enough to take the lives of millions of unborn children?
Are they the ones guilty of these crimes?
The scientific community has established that life begins at the moment of conception.
Thus, the destruction of life, whether as a result of genetic engineering experiments or abortion, is a crime, since a human life is being sacrificed.
Some would argue that the "foetus" (from the latin "fetus" meaning "small") is "part of the mother's body" and that the mother can do what she wants with her body.
The fact that the unborn child is temporarily inside the mother's womb and connected to her by the umbilical cord does not make him or her a part of the mother's body, like her hand or her liver, for example. To claim that anyone has a "right" to take the life of this unborn child is therefore unacceptable.
Secondly, having no absolute rights over our own bodies (this is why drug addiction, suicide and prostitution, for instance, are forbidden), still less have we any right to decide to end the life of another person, in this case that of our own child.
Those who demand the "right to choose" should make their choice before sexual intercourse (either abstinence or the use of condoms) and not after a human life has already been conceived.
Harmful effects of decriminalization
A pro-abortion mentality in Latin America would have far-reaching implications.
In a society where there has been little respect for the lives of adults, the legalization - and hence approval - of the killing of unborn children could have serious consequences. This could lead to the justification and continuation of and even an increase in other horrible killings, such as the murder of street children.
After all, it is only a matter of a difference in ages, as some children are at an age of only days or weeks since conception, while others are between 6 and 13 years old.
The experience of the United States should be borne in mind: following the decriminalization of abortion, an effort is now being made to legalize euthanasia (elimination of the elderly or of people with terminal illnesses).
Once a society has approved the killing of a given class of people, the door is open for the elimination of others, usually in arbitrary fashion. Our request
Although the problem of abortion should not be dealt with solely from the standpoint of criminal law, the law must be enforced and those who break it must be punished.
We ask the Latin American governments to enforce those laws that punish the criminal practice of abortion.
In addition, we ask that the human rights agencies carry out a campaign to educate and raise the awareness of people and of society in general regarding the need to respect human life from conception until death by natural causes.
Unborn children, like all the rest of us, have the right to life.
4. Human Rights Office of the Archdiocese of Guatemala
Appeal for peace and respect for the rights of all men and women
During the last few decades of our history, different sectors of Latin American society have worked hard to further the observance of human rights in a context of endemic violations of the most fundamental rights of the population.
Some progress has in fact been made; however, infringements of certain rights - the right to life, to social and economic development, to civil and political liberties - still prevail to an alarming degree throughout the subcontinent.
The impunity of those who violate human rights continues to be a heavy burden which, in many of our countries, hinders the consolidation of authentically democratic systems and the strengthening of the power of the civil society, which is greatly limited by authoritarian structures.
Ineffective legal mechanisms or the lack of political will to punish those responsible for abuses against human dignity actually protect and, in some cases, encourage those violations.
Our effort should be directed at putting an end to the wall of impunity that has been built up and institutionalized in our society.
That is the least we can do for the victims of forced disappearances, of tortures and of extrajudicial executions.
We must not forget that the difficulties encountered in efforts to make democracy and the rule of law viable have been aggravated by the lack of real participation in decision-making on the part of the civil society.
As long as the armed forces refuse to submit to civilian authority, and as long as Governments - even elected officials - do not provide channels for an authentic expression of the will of the people, democracy will not become a reality.
The work of this Regional Meeting should be aimed, among other things, at strengthening civil power in Latin America.
We note with satisfaction the agreements that have been reached and the peace initiatives that have been promoted, especially in the Central American countries, but we must remember that true reconciliation entails profound transformations in the social, economic and political structures that threaten the lives of peoples and that have been the cause of internal armed conflicts.
This also means that crimes against humanity must not be forgotten; rather, every effort must be made to discover the whole truth and to see that justice is done.
Reconciliation will only be real when it goes hand in hand with truth and justice.
It is therefore necessary to strengthen international surveillance and verification mechanisms in the field of human rights, and to create mechanism for guaranteeing observance of these rights on the part of States.
The collective efforts of this Regional Meeting are encouraging, as they show that there has been a clear awareness of the need to work to ensure respect for human rights.
Nevertheless, it is important to remind delegates of the different Governments that, regardless of whatever agreements or declarations might be signed, what is at stake is the lives of millions of people who have been deprived of the opportunity to live in dignity.
We note with satisfaction that 1993 has been declared the International Year for the World's Indigenous People, and we appeal to all Governments to pay attention to their just demands so as to enable them to control their own destinies.
Finally, we urge delegates to take into account the work done by the non-governmental organizations.
This work reflects the struggles carried out within our communities to put an end to the culture of violence and death which still prevails and which must be eliminated if we are to see the revival of an authentic culture of peace and respect for the rights of all men and women.
General observations on structural adjustment programmes
1. This document has two interrelated objectives:
(a) To give a brief account of the debates on the impact and effectiveness of the group of policies known as structural adjustment programmes currently being implemented or about to be implemented in the Latin American and Caribbean countries and in many other developing countries.
Specifically, to analyse the experience of structural adjustment programmes in the context of economic, social and cultural rights;
(b) To show support for the establishment of evaluation mechanisms and monitoring systems which would make it possible to gauge in what way and to what extent structural adjustment has compromised economic and social rights.
2. Without entering into the debate, we wish to state that we unconditionally support the concept of the interdependence and indivisibility of human rights, and the idea that equal consideration should be given to the full attainment of economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights.
3. The signatory States of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights should be accountable to their populations for the proper implementation of the necessary measures to ensure respect for those rights.
4. Appropriate interpretations of the basic minimum components of each right should be arrived at with a view to gradually achieving the full realization of economic, social and cultural rights.
This will help to establish standards of conduct for governments and multilateral organizations, and systems for monitoring economic and social policies and programmes that might have a fundamental impact on the attainment of these rights.
5. We support the statements contained in the "Limbourg Principles" with a view to clarifying the basic minimum components of each right and identifying breaches by States that constitute violations of the Universal Declaration, recognizing that this process is incomplete and needs more work.
We agree with the recommendations made by Mr. Danilo Türk, Special Rapporteur of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, on all aspects of the work of the group of experts on social indicators.
6. As our socio-economic research confirms the specific, negative impact that structural adjustment programmes in this region have on the attainment of economic rights, we will make a number of general observations concerning such measures.
7. Structural adjustment programmes are implemented at the behest of global financial organizations and not as sovereign approaches to development undertaken by democratically elected governments.
These programmes are often imposed as a standard package of formulas that do not take into account national economic characteristics, even when these are very significant.
These "formulas" frequently make the granting of multilateral financial resources contingent on the adoption of swift, Draconian changes in economic policy.
8. Even if we accept the argument that the mass suffering caused by radical adjustments in economic structures (shock treatment) is necessary in order to achieve strong economic growth in the future, the macroeconomic growth rates resulting from structural adjustment programmes, objectively considered, do not appear to be markedly different from those associated with earlier models.
9. Despite the recent incorporation of "social emergency programmes", which somewhat mitigate the impact of structural adjustment, the basic rationales of structural adjustment inevitably leads to a sharp structural reduction in governments ability to intervene on behalf of affected populations, as their regulatory power is severely curbed.
10. At the same time, liberalization measures have sparked a change in productive and service activities; swift, steep reductions in tariff rates and tighter credit markets have hurt production geared to domestic markets and favoured trade and productive activities for the international market.
As the level of employment in the sectors where new investment is being channelled is well below what would have been generated by a surge in domestic markets, dramatic increases in unemployment and underemployment levels have frequently occurred.
Wages drop in real terms, many people are forced to lead a precarious existence in the informal sector and fewer people receive the benefits traditionally associated with participation in formal labour markets (social security, vacation, labour laws, etc.).
11. This negative redistribution of national income affects the very strata of the population least equipped to absorb a deterioration in their standards of living or to mobilize in order to influence those who make the policies.
Adjustment policies have aggravated the situation of the poor, for their wages have fallen in real terms, their access to education and health services has been reduced because of government cut-backs and investment in housing has dropped substantially.
12. Increasingly, the spread of poverty has manifested itself in civil strife.
States tend to resort to the use of armed force to control the portion of the population that is adversely affected in those countries where structural adjustment is being implemented.
As a result, the basic causes of government violations of civil and political rights in many countries are no longer political but economic.
Ironically, the result is "equal violation" of socio-economic and civil and political rights in the name of economic stabilization and future growth.
6. Asamblea Permanente de Derechos Humanos de Bolivia
Violations of fundamental human rights
The Asamblea Permanente de Derechos Humanos de Bolivia (APDHB) considers that this preparatory meeting should state very clearly the causes which continue to give rise to violations of fundamental human rights despite the existence of constitutional Governments in Latin America.
I. One of the main problems has to do with neoliberal economic policies which, when applied without regard to the social context, aggravate the poverty of our peoples. This is evidenced by the rising rates of infant mortality, malnutrition and other consequences of poverty, along with the gradual increase in the external debt.
This situation has led to the violation of collective rights, inasmuch as hunger among the people is the price that is being paid for the measures imposed by the International Monetary Fund.
That is in fact what led the Tribunal Permanente de los Pueblos, in one of its sessions, to condemn this type of policies, inasmuch as the way in which they are imposed, as well as their consequences, constitute crimes against humanity.
We suggest that this preparatory meeting should propose to the World Conference in Vienna that it adopt a resolution on this matter, whereby it would condemn economic policies that threaten the right to life, as well as social rights, and recommend to governments that, in preparing their budgets, they should give priority to social issues (health, education) rather than to other matters, such as financing of the external debt, of repression and of defence.
II. Another cause of human rights violations is the fact that governments do not have the political will to try to improve the democratic system, with a view to establishing governments that are truly participative, not only for politicians but also for the people.
We suggest that mechanisms of popular participation be set up in every country. Thus, important decisions which affect the destiny of States would first be submitted to the people, either by means of referenda or other measures, so as to take into account the interests of all citizens and not only those of the international financial sectors.
III. We consider that the lack of full autonomy of the different branches of government, especially the judicial branch, distorts and weakens democracy to the point that the courts become mere satellites of the Executive Branch, and are frequently used as instruments of political repression.
The courts often act in obvious subordination to the government that happens to be in power at the time, and corruption is widespread.
We ask that the United Nations recommend to Governments that they strengthen and guarantee freedom of action for their democratic institutions, and promote the appointment of independent judges on the basis of moral character and professional qualifications rather than political and partisan interests.
Thus, citizens who take their cases to the courts or who are taken to trial would know that they would be standing before impartial judges who respect the law and act in a spirit of justice.
IV. Impunity.
We note with great concern that most of the perpetrators of crimes against humanity remain unpunished; this is due to the lack of political will of governments and of the bodies that have the jurisdiction to punish them.
We therefore support the International Law Commission's proposal on the creation of an international criminal court in order to make it possible to punish these crimes.
We also suggest that this preparatory meeting should propose to the World Conference at Vienna that it establish the imprescriptibility of crimes against humanity, and that the definition of such crimes be ratified by national governments.
V. Finally, inasmuch as the impunity of one or more former dictators is not the problem of any particular country, but rather of the international community as a whole, our organization requests that a recommendation be made to States to make every effort to detain some former dictators who are still free and are even being protected by certain political sectors, despite the fact that criminal charges have been brought against them.
7. Guyana Human Rights Association
The right to development
1. The right to development is inalienable, as established by the General Assembly in its resolution 41/128 of 4 December 1986.
Development in its full sense is achieved by the enjoyment of political, economic, social, cultural and democratic rights together with the protection of minorities against discrimination and defence of the environment.
The international human rights instruments taken together, therefore, provide a normative framework within which the development process chosen by States must take place.
2. A grave danger exists that such a process of development will be diverted from its goals by two major obstacles confronting governments. One such obstacle occurs at the level of effective compliance and the other with respect to the United Nations agencies in charge of development.
3. An increasing number of countries are signatories to two sets of international agreements.
On the one hand States have committed themselves by ratification to uphold the norms and values contained in the international human rights instruments.
On the other hand, the same countries enter into agreements with the international financial institutions with a view to economic recovery.
The central strategy of these latter agreements is normally to circumscribe the capacity of governments to comply with the obligations contained in the former agreements in the areas of economic, social and cultural rights.
In addition to endangering levels of achievement already secured, the tensions created by these competing obligations endangers the gains made in the process of democratization by fuelling social unrest.
4. Governments of the Latin American and Caribbean region, confronted by such conflicting tendencies must attempt to achieve higher levels of consistency between the process of domestic policy formation which embodies the norms and goals of the international instruments and the forms of international cooperation into which they enter and which are not inspired by similar values.
5. Similar efforts to achieve greater coherence and consistency in the area of development policies should be demanded of the United Nations agencies and other intergovernmental agencies charged with the development responsibilities.
Realization of the Right to Development is impeded by the narrow, compartmentalized, isolated and frequently unproductive ways in which these agencies interpret their mandate.
Strong voices on the Commission on Human Rights have argued, and thus far won the day, that promotion of the Right to Development is a matter for the Development Agencies, which for their part use the same arguments to avoid responsibility for ensuring that their programmes conform to and promote the norms of economic, social and cultural rights.
Perhaps, more than any other single factor at the levels of development cooperation, this fragmentation has robbed the United Nations system of an integrated and dynamic approach to implementing the Right to Development.
Recommendations
6. In order to counter these tendencies in the field of international cooperation we recommend the following steps as regards the United Nations agencies charged with the implementation of Human Rights and Development:
(a) Systematic exchanges should be introduced between the agencies as a constitutive part of their mandate in order to ensure a higher level of coherence between the norms which govern international financial and technical cooperation and the international human rights instruments;
(b) The United Nations agencies must give greater priority to the provision of methodologies appropriate to measuring the progress made by States in implementing economic, social and cultural rights.
8. Guyana Human Rights Association
1. Within a larger world growing increasingly intolerant and fearful of difference, the Latin American and Caribbean region has thus far avoided the upheavals of racial and cultural violence on a scale which threatens the societies.
Diversity, on balance, remains an asset rather than a liability.
However, the region is not immune to the influences, especially economic hardship, which fuel intolerance and discrimination in other parts of the world.
2. It is becoming increasingly clear that formal democratic structures alone are insufficient as a safeguard against intolerance and bigotry.
Targets of racial, religious, ethnic and gender intolerance are categories of persons making discrimination predictable because a person is a member of a particular ethnic group, gender or religious persuasion rather than because of the person's behaviour.
Norms of humanity which govern social life are seen as valid within one's own group and not for those outside that group, thus calling into question, not the content of rights but the range of their validity, or, in other words, the universality of rights.
3. Added urgency of the problems of intolerance and discrimination is provided by the pressures of extreme market-oriented strategies and forms of international cooperation which are relegating the concept of social justice to the margins of political discussion.
Hence, equality or, more precisely, equal access to the enjoyment of rights and liberties is steadily eroded.
4. Reaffirmation of the concepts of equality and non-discrimination as values superior to the loyalty of blood or common heritage, and superior also to nationalist affirmations, is urgently needed in the Latin American and Caribbean region.
The international human rights instruments remain the one area of social and economic policy formation in which the legitimacy of the concepts of equality and non-discrimination remains viable and intact.
While assigned to the margins of international economic and social development strategies, the international human rights commitments provide a platform on which these values can be strengthened.
5. While many governments of the Latin American and Caribbean region are signatories to the main international instruments governing forms of discrimination and inequality, covenant ratification has had little overt impact on domestic economic and social policy formation.
The value of international instruments conceived primarily for domestic policy formation is not well understood and those instruments are under-utilized both by governments and non-governmental organizations.
6. Governments of the Latin American and Caribbean region, using the opportunity provided by the World Conference on Human Rights, should recommit themselves to the eradication of all forms of discrimination.
7. Such a recommitment should be manifest in strong support for more effective ratification of and compliance with the provisions of international human rights instruments governing the elimination of inequality and discrimination.
8. Allocation of adequate financial provisions to support the work of treaty bodies is an essential step for the effective carrying out of the work of these bodies.
9. The World Conference should provide the opportunity for the creation of more effective technical services to assist governmental compliance with the provisions of international commitments in the area of equality and non-discrimination.
9. Colombian League for the Rights and Liberation of Peoples
Impunity of crimes against humanity in Latin America
In November 1989, the International League for the Rights and Liberation of Peoples, together with the Permanent Peoples' Court and dozens of human rights organizations, unions and indigenous, civic, religious, humanitarian, cultural and political organizations, put "Impunity of Crimes against Humanity in Latin America" on trial.
We have therefore assumed the difficult task of bringing to light and exposing to the international community incidents of violence unleashed against our peoples, which have been covered up in order to guarantee that they will go unpunished and will continue, as a means of controlling the reaction of shame, indignation and defiance they would arouse in the moral conscience of mankind.
2. A comparative study of Latin American legislation gives some insight into how laws on amnesty and pardon, due obedience, national security principles and ideologies, police and military courts, emergency decrees, the judiciary's loss of independence and the militarization of the administration of justice, among others, have become the chief mechanisms for supporting and maintaining impunity on our continent.
3. Impunity is not a problem that affects only certain regions of the world Letter from non-governmental organizations to Messrs. Joinet and Guisse, February 1992.
and crimes against humanity have a political dimension, as they preclude any possibility of coexistence among human beings and, therefore, prevent any form of democracy from resolving social conflicts.
4. The processes of transition to democracy and peace negotiations in situations of internal conflict are doomed to failure if they do not address the question of punishing those guilty of such crimes, barring State officials who have violated human rights from public service and banning policies that prompt them to do so.
Democracy with impunity is inconceivable. Ibid.
5. Penalties must be imposed for the grave violations of human rights committed in the past, since crimes against humanity are imprescriptible and international law requires that their authors be punished. Ibid.
6. Impunity undermines the effectiveness and legitimacy of international law by denying the actionable character of human rights violations established in the Universal Declaration and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
7. Impunity is itself a violation of the right to justice, since States are bound to duly protect the rights of their nationals and to prosecute and punish acts which constitute attacks on these rights, and impunity becomes more serious and intolerable when it is intended to protect State officials who have violated basic rights.
8. The condemnation of impunity in Latin America is a task which goes beyond tribunals and legislation, since it basically represents a duty of peoples to humanity itself.
Therefore, the Latin American people, who have repeatedly been victims of this scourge, will not cease their struggle and their voices will be raised in constant and vigorous warning to ensure that the acts from which we have suffered will never happen again.
We urge the official delegations attending this Meeting to support the work of the group composed of the experts Louis Joinet and El Hadji Guisse, whom the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities (resolution 1991/110) designated to study the topic of impunity, and to endorse and act upon the recommendations of that group.
Lastly, we recall the words of our Nobel laureate Gabriel García Márquez, as living testimony of our hope:
"We spinners of tales who believe in everything believe it is not too late to begin building an alternative utopia, a new and transforming utopia of life, where no one can dictate to others even the manner of their death, where love and happiness are real, and where the races condemned to 100 years of solitude may have, finally and forever, a second chance on this Earth". Gabriel García Márquez, "La Soledad de América Latina". Stockholm, 1982. Notes
16 November 1992
Original: ENGLISH
WORLD CONFERENCE ON HUMAN RIGHTS
Preparatory Committee
Fourth session
Item 8 of the provisional agenda
Note by the Secretary-General of the World Conference
on Human Rights
GE.92-14513 (E)
Original: ENGLISH
Item 10 (a) of the provisional agenda *
NATURAL DISASTER REDUCTION: VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES
Technical session
Addendum
Vulnerability and development
Summary of presentation by Dr. Richard Jolly, Deputy Executive Director, UNICEF
1. Over the years, as the world population continues to increase, putting pressure on limited resources, environmental degradation and overwhelming poverty become crucial elements contributing to the frequency and impact of natural disasters.
These factors of poverty, population growth and environmental degradation are the underlying causes of vulnerability and must be tackled if disaster mitigation is to be achieved.
The long-term goals of development work address the same problems, demonstrating the inseparable relationship between emergencies and the developmental process.
2. One fifth of the world's population lives in absolute poverty.
Poverty is the fundamental reason why certain societies are more vulnerable to disasters than others. As is widely recognized, as long as poverty and social inequalities persist in the world, the potential for disaster is enormous.
The only viable long-term solution is to vigorously support vulnerable communities, especially the women who bear the major responsibility for the survival of their families.
3. Population growth is also a major factor in increasing vulnerability to disaster. It perpetuates poverty by increasing pressure on scarce resources of land, finance and capacity for provision of basic services.
